yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah does this work hey good
morning good afternoon good evening hope
you all are doing well
let's go Rufio Rufio Rufio Rufio with
the Rays let's go
hope you all are doing well Rufio thank
you for the raid if y'all not hanging
out with Rufio before the stream look
look look look stream team Channel they
let you know when they're going live
Rufio was live before this stream so
what were you doing here early shipping
with Rufio let's go let's go on
everybody hope you all are doing well uh
we also have some fun stuff planned next
week we're gonna we're gonna we gotta we
gotta start highlighting the stream team
more and we're starting that next week
so uh excited to kind of share some cool
stuff with y'all next week but uh Rufio
thanks for bringing the crew along hi
everybody welcome back hope you had a
good Tuesday evening a good Wednesday a
good early Thursday
all right everybody uh tonight we got a
few things that we got to do uh one uh
we are going to look at some Hit List
Magic
that's right hit list magic folks uh
because Hit List is due next week y'all
uh so I I wanted to share a little
secret that I just found out about
recently a little magic that might that
might actually help you and your uh your
hit list so let's go ahead and talk
about that uh we're gonna share some
celebrations uh I think this this is
this is definitely boardroom Worthy
15 plus jobs 15.
in the last week alone
15 plus
we haven't even started the hunt yet we
haven't even started the hunt yet
and 15 in the last week the celebrations
channel was on fire folks are messaging
me it's been wild 15 plus we're over 50.
we might be at 20 by now we don't get
got in just the last week alone if you
aren't paying attention to that
celebrations Channel you need to but I'm
gonna we gotta celebrate a little bit so
I'm going through them the folks that
posted in the celebration they're in the
slides there's actually more on
celebration channels that are in the
slides uh
because they're just getting ridiculous
uh so yeah congrats to everyone uh
that's gotten a job so far and I always
say this uh because we're not even at
the hunt yet right so no no no no
being like why am I not there yet
because you're not supposed to be there
yet
we're upside down on the roller coaster
some people fell out and that's how they
got the job already you know so we gotta
we gotta we gotta we gotta be cool with
that but we're gonna celebrate because
15 jobs 15 jobs Community taught well
the theme you're gonna see over and over
and over again is thanking the community
thanking folks that helped supported
them thanking specific channels on
Discord that got them through it
I'm about to loosen my seatbelt no no no
we're not ready to fall off yet don't
take yourself out the game I'm buckling
the seat belt is taking yourself out the
game
so
super excited that you're all here uh
like I said we're gonna see some
celebrations we're gonna we're gonna do
some some some some Hit List magic and
then we're walking through our full
stack social networking site uh I really
believe in this idea uh that I got from
Gray's Anatomy right where you where you
you you you you you you you you you see
one you do one you teach one right like
that that's like the old school like
surgeon's way you see one
you do one you teach one and so we're
gonna see one all right we're gonna see
one then you're gonna do one next week
and then we're gonna hopefully teach
others later on so
welcome that you're all here
um
sorry for folks that are getting I don't
know what's up with the ads it's so I
changed it back to one minute delay but
if you're getting ads I apologize
uh trying to figure out so it works
better uh for everyone but uh yeah it's
been a little while they're not the
addressing now are not on my end like I
can't I can't control always when twitch
runs them but for some reason they
decided to run them five minutes ago
so
the the downsides of unfortunately being
on Twitch Ain't Got No Control
[Laughter]
all right everybody uh so let's get into
it as always I like to start off with uh
some questions you got questions I got
answers
hey thank you for the gift it says Ian
Douglas thank you for to get the subs
thank you for being here
appreciate it
uh agenda we kind of just talked through
it questions you got questions I got
answers
currently in class 15 went to see what
the current cohort is at we outside
Zealot that's where we're at we outside
we getting jobs let's go we outside we
online
when we go over react uh two weeks
two weeks
his mayonnaise an instrument if you know
how to use it
what's your favorite ice cream uh
I don't know that's a hard question
salt and straw has these like vegan ice
creams that'd be that'd be balling
sometimes
is okay to apply for senior rolls if
it's like hey don't ever let like don't
ever let your dreams be dreams right
[Music]
right so
if there's a job that you really want
and it seems like it might be something
you could you could fit for
um go for it we've had folks that went
through the program that got senior
roles right out of the program because a
lot of times stuff's all made up and it
doesn't matter anyway now what I focus
my job hunt on senior rolls absolutely
not when most senior roles be a stretch
for most folks just coming out of
program absolutely
um but if it's your dream it's a great
job you think it might be a good fit for
you why not shoot your shot of course
they say is no best you get is some good
interview practice you know
uh Ivan if you send a mod mail your good
will follow up
had a recruiter go through a list of
different Frameworks languages asking me
my experience level uh you turn it back
on them and ask them how many years of
experience they have right when somebody
starts getting into that they're they're
just going through like a checklist and
um
yeah going through a checklist means
that that that's just a waste I don't
know it's just it's just a waste of time
and so if they're going to go through a
checklist my answer is yeah since since
it came out
how many years of experience do you have
with it since it came out
yep I heard about it five years ago
right
a lot of times I'm just going to chalk
those up that ain't gonna go anywhere
yeah I ain't gonna go anywhere
if they're if they're already not seeing
me for me if they're already not looking
at my projects if they're already not
looking at the Merit of the application
that I have put in front of them and
they're just going through that's a wrap
it just move on
ain't gonna win that one
uh should we focus on front of our back
end on our strengths uh no I think you
should apply to any kind of like role
that's front and back in full stack uh
keep your options open and like I said
it's 1-60 right so you'll start to feel
out like 10 interviews in you start to
kind of get a little bit of a rhythm you
start to be like all right I'm doing a
lot better in these types of interviews
so I might optimize my hunt for these
specific types of roles and so
I think that's something that comes up
naturally once we get into it so we're
gonna have classes on like how to
negotiate we're gonna like one of the
beautiful things about hunttober is like
kind of answering that question a little
bit more seriously when somebody says
how many years of experience do you have
with each of these things that's
something we talk about during October
where
um I can kind of expand on a little bit
more deeply and be like how can we
redirect and get to the thing that
actually matters and so if somebody says
like Leon how many years of experience
do you have with next JS right
wonderful so I've been using react for a
very long time I have built lots of
wonderful applications that you can see
on my portfolio that include next JS so
if you're looking for someone that has
built full stack apps that has built
react apps using next.js that has ship
production worthy code using next.js I
would definitely point you to the
projects that are on my GitHub
right and then if they go but yeah but
yeah dog but like how many hours right
then then I just know it's completely
like lost like uh does that like when
the next next.js come out like like like
it's I I built apps
right I have them on my GitHub you can
see them you can play with them if
that's not enough
right if that's not if that doesn't
matter to you then this this
conversation this this isn't gonna work
out
right and so how to handle those types
of conversations
um how to say that a little bit more
eloquently how to lead the interviewer
in a in a better direction is kind of
all the stuff we go over during October
would I actually say that yeah so I
would actually say like to give the
answer they have to be like uh so I've
been using next JS for quite a while uh
hard to put my finger on like the exact
date I started using it but I do have
projects on my GitHub I've pushed
production level code that uses next.js
so if you're interested in seeing those
applications I'm happy to show them to
you
right and so that that that's an honest
answer right the honest answer is like
I've used it I have projects that have
that I can show you right but I'm not
actually answering the number
right and if they ask if they really
push for the actual number then I then I
would just honestly say honestly I don't
know I've been using it for a while
right
so that's kind of how I answer those
when they put you on this tough spot
like that if me showing you actual
projects using it doesn't work or things
like that then
it's a wrap
and so the cool thing is that you will
all have built full stack apps that have
react that have some interesting
framework some interesting libraries
that have uh node all these things
that'll just be the checklist things
that you can point to yeah
yep
cool
um
we learn about Big O notation absolutely
yep uh so we have like a whole class on
Big O and then we have a whole other
class on data structures algorithms yep
webman if you actually have that time
yeah sure absolutely
uh what do we do about the fear of being
fired after getting the job uh so that's
the real this is the rub right this is
the thing people don't want to talk
about the real work starts once you get
the job right like getting the job is
one thing but then keeping the job as a
whole other bag of worms and it's
something we're gonna have like a full
class on
um but here's the thing it's gonna take
them three months like let's just say
let's just say worst case scenario
right worst case scenario uh they hate
your guts uh they they they just don't
like you it's still gonna take them
probably like three months to fire you
right like it's the absolute worst fit
they hate you you're still onboarding
it's probably still going to take them
three months so I'd rather get paid to
learn for three months uh and just don't
update your LinkedIn right away you
should never update your LinkedIn
immediately right get get through that
first three month review get through
that first whatever that first review
cycle is get through that and then
update all your stuff because you could
have just been freelancing during that
time nobody else needs to know and uh
one of the thing is that you need to
keep up your interview skills [__]
happens right [__] happens and so I
think people get comfortable after they
get that first job and it's absolutely
not the time uh to get comfortable you
got to keep up your your data structures
your algorithms you got to keep up
um your your code practice on top of all
the things you're learning to be
successful as you onboard at that
company
um and so yeah like worst case scenario
you get paid and then you find another
job
cool alrighty folks thank you for the
questions uh we are going to have a
wonderful review session on Sunday so if
you're new around here and you're like
what is this cool thing how are people
getting jobs how can I learn back in web
development come back on Sunday we're
going to do a full review we're starting
at 1 p.m eastern time we're going until
we get it done
all right so if you ever wanted to learn
how to code if you want to learn back in
web development that's what that class
is for we'll also plenty of times to
answer uh tons of other questions you
might have I like to come back from
breaks and answer a few questions as we
go throughout the entire day all right
if you haven't checked in please go
ahead and check in exclamation point
check in get you the tweet for today go
ahead and like that retweet it for me
if you haven't submitted your project
work I don't care what you got show me
what you got I want you to submit it in
that form uh closes it's gonna close
soon so get it in today please uh back
in review class like I said Sunday and
hit list is due Tuesday uh that is that
is just in a few days folks since I
remember on The Hit List I just need the
companies like I need the actual
open job at the companies that you could
actually realistically apply to and so a
lot of folks have been having a little
bit of trouble finding companies that
they could work at have open roles like
you're digging through different sites
you're digging through
um different portals and it's just it
like then you find a job but it was
posted three years ago and so uh The Hit
List The Hit List I went to on Tuesday
is 40 companies the
final version of it will be 60 right so
40 do Tuesday 60 do by the end and so
these should be companies that are in
your local area because local is always
a little bit easier to get the job we do
have a lot of folks that don't live in a
large metro area that's okay expand your
search to Metro areas that are close to
you because a lot of companies still
aren't back in the office and you might
be able to sneak in one flight a month
and still be working remotely but had a
better opportunity at getting the job
because you are close to it right and
then if you don't have anything that's
in a larger metro area you're going for
remote right and then if you're outside
of the US you're outside of Canada
you're looking for kind of remote Global
hire right so if you're in a place that
doesn't have a tech industry or doesn't
have a big one you don't have any larger
Metro areas to what you can apply to
then you're looking for remote
opportunities that hire globally and so
this is uh a
arduous process it takes a long time
uh to to find these these these
opportunities uh I've done it in the
past where I've just grind it through uh
Angel list or now I think they think now
they call it Angel Co I've grinded it
through Linkedin I've grinded into these
different job boards and it's always a
pain in the butt to like find the actual
roles find ones that are actually open
and so the other day on Tick Tock of all
places I found this and it's something I
just never thought to do I do this a lot
but I never thought to do this for the
job search let me show you the magic of
what this is so if you don't know Google
can take in booleans it can take in a
lot of other special stuff right and it
can help you filter out the results that
show up in Google so what I've done is
I've built off of this this they go by
10bv I link their Tick Tock here because
it was brilliant
um I added the common job sites that I
use dice indeed Angel Co and then these
ones here are the ones they that they
found that are kind of like the sites
that host the job applications right uh
that host the job applications and so a
lot of times like even if you're on even
if you're on
um even if you're on like LinkedIn or
any like some of the other bigger job
sites you like click apply and then it
takes you to where they're hosting their
job application and it's normally one of
these like four sites and so what this
is saying is you're telling Google to
only return results from these websites
right so only return results from these
websites and you can add others if there
are other job boards
um that are popular near you so like if
you're from a certain country and the
job board is different for you in that
country then you would just add it to to
this list right
I've seen some other folks saying so
maybe we'll maybe we'll put this in a
GitHub repo and people can add the ones
that are special to them that'd be cool
to do so we will do that I'll do that
after class I'll set up that rebound
people want to submit PRS they can and
so you put all the different sites to
have stuff in you type in the roles that
you're looking for so engineer or
developer so this is like your your your
your your or operator here engineer or
developer and then I'm looking for
inside of that result the result must
have the word JavaScript and it must
have the word remote right so these are
the sites that we're looking for these
are the things that must that have to be
on the that are going to be on the page
these are the things that must be on the
page and then here's all the stuff I
want to filter out so if it has senior
on there get it out if it's staff get it
out if it's senior get it out if it's
lead get it out if it's principal get it
out if it's angular get it out right and
you can change this up to whatever you
want right like you don't have to have
I'm being silly with the angular here
but it can be helpful to focus right and
so you pull all the stuff that you don't
care about right and then you put and
this is the last bit of magic here you
put the date so after August 1st so what
this will do
is it'll search all these sites for
engineering and developer roles that
have JavaScript and remote on the page
gets rid of all the senior crap gets rid
of the stuff that maybe like in your
area everything is C plus plus or
everything is PHP and you just don't
want those roles you can remove those
roles and then after that time and you
plug all this into Google
um I use DuckDuckGo so I have to do bang
G for this to work but just ignore that
and here's 1200 results
almost 1300 results of like straight job
listings
um that are remote JavaScript roles and
so like you can you can like just look
on them and some of them are going to be
bunk right like not all of them are
going to be like great roles right
um and over time you'll figure out how
to like remove the stuff you don't care
about maybe you keep seeing a certain
type of recruiter that keeps doing
something that you don't want you can
just add them to your your nuke list
there and uh boom it's the actual like
application with the right company like
has everything you need and it takes you
right to like the application page so
just an easy way to like find actual
roles that were posted recently right
because you have that date that date uh
on the on there and then as you want you
can switch things up so maybe maybe
you're not remote so maybe you're gonna
do
um I don't know maybe you're gonna do
New York because you're you're in New
York and you don't want to be remote so
you'll do like
um New York
right
and there you go boom 161 results uh for
JavaScript New York filtering out all of
the like senior roles that were all
posted recently
right
there you go and so you can just plug in
your locality right you can plug in your
your location and there you go right you
just start finding
um
these like actual open jobs
that you can apply to and over time you
you modify it for the things that you
care about like if there's certain roles
or things that you care about boom you
just add them and that's it
so uh these are in the slides you can do
exclamation point slides if you need the
slides I'm just gonna let me post this
in chat let's see if it'll let me post
it in chat
yeah there you go boom
you can copy and paste that if you need
it but it's also in the slides
exclamation point slides uh and there
you go
and so uh like I said this this wasn't
my idea I saw this on Tick Tock and then
I added some of the stuff that we might
care about so this is the person that
did it as freaking genius uh and so you
should be able to fill out your Hit List
pretty quickly uh with this Rule and
since I'm getting good [__] from Tick
Tock I'm actually gonna start putting
more stuff on Tick Tock I know I said it
before but like I've been really working
on a lot of like this short stuff like
the stuff that doesn't make sense to put
anywhere else
um but I want it to be like a video so
maybe not Twitter like yeah it's going
on Tick Tock so I know some of you don't
want to use tick tock that's okay don't
follow me on Tick Tock that's wonderful
but that's what I'm putting on there uh
because I'm actually finding a lot of
really important stuff on there and it's
where the it's where the kids are you
know like we gotta we gotta we got it we
gotta get the youngins or else what's
our future like you know so
um I'm gonna be on there
foreign
let's get some celebrations going uh I
it's just it's just really too much
right
uh
you got to stay hip right you gotta stay
hip
um and so the celebration's just been
wild so many posts people have been
posting uh so these are all in the
celebrations Channel you can just go to
Celebration Channel and you'll see all
of these uh wonderful wonderful uh posts
and so just wanted to throw some in here
that I think were that that were pretty
dope
um
I I love this one uh they posted on the
tech Channel first and then they posted
a celebration channel uh for all of you
who think I can get this job I can't get
this job I didn't go to college for this
let me tell you right now my degree to
not get me the job this community and
the skills Leon taught did uh due to my
experience companies did not even want
to interview me for entry level roles uh
so
I think there's some a lot of bit of
little bits of wisdom uh and what people
are sharing uh as they are getting these
jobs right because I think there's
something really important about keeping
like your pulse on the ground of what's
happening and one of the beautiful
things about
what I do every day is every day I'm
helping people get jobs right like my
day job is resilient coders from helping
people get jobs and so when I share
things it's it's not because I like I
think this is going to work it's because
I've literally helped hundreds of people
do this and I really pay attention to
what people say and I really pay
attention to what I see the trends are
and if the trend swings One Way guess
what I'm going to start teaching all
right and so I think there's little bits
of wisdom in here I love that some
people share like the things that they
did that were different than what I told
them to do right I think that's huge
right and so
I'm always going to say that I'm going
to show you doors to open it's really up
to you which doors you open right and so
open as many doors as you possibly can
because you'll be surprised
um what walks through them right
um
uh with the exception of knowingly code
questions there's only income from
companies I don't want to work with
pretty much every question I was asked
during my interviews was still in the
bank or related to the bank
foreign
every offer I got for an interview
happened because I followed Leon's
method for the hunt the skills are
necessary for the job came from this is
just this is just me this is my Victory
lap right now uh thank you
um
they're going to be offering coffee
chats which is dope thank you for doing
that uh and I just love that this is
for making this community it's Community
taught folks do the bank
don't listen to me
listen to them
pretty much every question I was asked
during my interviews was still in the
bank or related to the bank do the bank
do the bank do the bank don't listen to
me do the bank
all right
uh
received a front end software
engineering offer can't thank Leon in
this community community taught enough
um
I went from an unmotivated CS student
during my freshman year to grinding and
following Leon's path uh eventually
landed me this job for all the Cs
students that are trying to get a job
it's totally possible do not mention
you're in college
do not mention you're in college this is
a lesson I had to learn uh it it
actually a lot of csps have said this
before that like if you're still like on
the way to graduating but you're
actively job searching telling them
you're in University actually can hurt
you as you're trying to get a job before
you graduate uh especially if you're not
like close to graduating if it's not
something like you'll graduate and then
start and so I think that was pretty
funny to bring up because it's
definitely true I've definitely seen
people once they stop mentioning it get
more opportunities cool
we go get
oh and I love this I'll continue to
follow along with the court and bring as
many more people along with me let's go
that's all I ask you all thought this
was free it ain't free you gotta turn
around and bring more people with you
all right
just signed a written Java developer
position good looking resume I use the
template it works
perks
it works
Leon it's not the full ATS format it
works get out of here
foreign
[Music]
s
the buttons
oh man oh man um
foreign
we're just gonna have a full class on
buttons button prep
big part of hunttober is butt and prep
people out here getting jobs with these
buttons
[Laughter]
uh for 400 devs I sent out over 100
applications
got nothing
hold on hold on
sent out over a hundred applications and
got nothing but why with 100 devs I had
offers come to me let's go hey we
outside we online let's go say less
foreign
all right Long Time Coming
uh I only got the bag shout outs to the
community also shout out to Naya hey uh
Knight's been doing some Twitter spaces
with Sean uh doing a lot of like
negotiation talk
um so shout out to them and shout out to
the mental health Channel let's go uh
helping them get across the Finish Line
I love it
alrighty this is a big one
uh can I believe my times finally come
finally accepted a full stack software
engineer from a fortune 50K
[Music]
uh the best part about this uh I I don't
know if I I have to I'll retweet it I'll
probably retweet it this weekend
um and they should somebody did a meme
uh they uh they applied to Target
and uh didn't get the job like like the
like the normal 15 an hour Target job I
didn't get it uh and then now they're a
full stack software engineer at a
Fortune 50 company
that's the whoever whoever turned you
down for that job you you got to send
them something
you got to send them a thank you card or
something let's go and they were on the
live stream yeah they were when we did
the um the story crafting so this is
this has been this is a long time coming
I love that they thanked out everyone uh
their special little group here in 100
devs uh shout out the mod shout out the
mods as always uh big shout out to
divker recently if you ever see
difficult in chat please just just just
like just put like like a heart on
anything they ever say uh you all don't
know the work they put in to keep like
the lights on and that Discord running
uh so shout out the mods I see a lot of
mods here
Chris a thank you for being here
uh shout out to stream team let's go uh
Mine Wolf hey love it la love it 100
deaths community community talk love it
um
[Laughter]
alrighty I love to see it thank you
thank you thank you
uh
got a non-profit client back in April
and has led to a couple referrals even
though the project isn't completely done
signed another client putting us over
11k
11k in client work 11 Grand let's go
let's go still a minor just believe that
this is happening let's go
uh was having a hard time looking for
volunteer work uh but now they found a
new volunteer opportunity to be working
on real world projects collaborating
with real people love to see it uh
consider it's a huge Victory me too
uh accepted an offer is entry-level
software developer been involved since
beginning cohort 2. I've been through
the highs and lows and uh
I love that they kind of mentioned
wasn't able to land a client wasn't able
to get the the review on GitHub couldn't
get past four cues I don't know if many
people get past Four Keys that's wild
and um
was able to land a job by focusing on
learning how to learn and learning how
to network and talk to people better hey
folks that's why we push the networking
every week uh thanks to everyone who
helped along the way and the community
community taught love to see it
uh landed a client that's for the
foreseeable future 10 to 15 hours a week
at eighty dollars an hour
let's go
for reference arena being paid here is
four times my currently hourly rate and
my nine to five
four
times
the amount
let's go
[Laughter]
uh
just signed a contract for mid-level
front mid-level front engineer at a
company which was a dream goal uh
believe hardest part is keeping him
believing it's not an All or Nothing
deal uh
I love this I love that part open the
doors that that you can open play your
strongest cards soft skills carry soft
skills get jobs folks and manage your
learning time Anki Banky code challenge
every day time slot I had for learning
started with those only one had extra
time was I working on projects or
learning new material I agree with that
thanks mods and the community can you
talk let's go you know you spend too
much time on this I don't care
let me pop off for a bit
uh jumbo C loved to see it
we don't get got
jealousy uh
set to my first offer as a front-end
software engineer level two uh working
with some some hype stuff fully remote
yesterday was my first day of work I
wanted to wait until the laptop arrived
so I knew it was real before posting uh
I want to thanks for creating this
community they were part of the first
cohort I love to see it first cohort
folks grinding coming back when they
need to get in the stuff they need to
get done
um and
one thing I never felt discouraged
because I knew it was a matter of it not
if but when it's always just to win
we're all in the same roller coaster
folks sometimes you're in the back of
the car and you pull in a little later
that's all right this community really
helped me grow as an engineer improve my
communication skills that transferred
over to my new role thank you all for
part of the community I love it special
shout out to Emma B
uh Nicole L dab uh interview process
they broke it down for you I love when
people do that when you get the job tell
us what tell us what what happened I
need this when you post your job tell me
tell us about what happened tell us tell
us the things you went through what do
we need to be preparing for what did you
see on the job that got you the job you
know
tools that helped me the most aside from
the community I love that aside from the
community Anki do the bank once again
folks don't listen to me
listen to Jimbo don't listen to me
listen to Jimbo do the bank Network
building you will learn by getting stuck
getting unstuck getting stuck again yes
at this point in time
you have to be building
you have to be building if you're not
building
you're not learning
and so tonight we're gonna walk through
we're gonna walk through this full stack
application
and I'm gonna ask you to build on top of
it and and it's gonna be hard it's gonna
be difficult it's gonna be something you
haven't done it's gonna be weird it's
gonna you're gonna go to Discord ask a
metric crap ton of questions but then
we'll go over it next week but I need to
build in I need you playing with code I
don't need you to sit here listening to
me I need you to actually get your
fingers on the keyboard and get [__]
done
said 90 days until MVP
run
[Applause]
all right
I I love the last one uh I'm excited to
announce I've just said the offers a
full-time software developer I'm pumped
love it
love it just saw that once uh earlier
today in the in the in the channel so as
always uh don't listen to me go to that
celebrations Channel there's even more
than I put on the slides can you believe
that there's even more
then when I put in the slides even more
even more
more
and you can go back you don't have to
scroll you can just look at the PIN the
pansy 50 other ones that are pinned
if you have any shredded doubt that you
can do this
don't listen to me listen to them
you can do this
you're close
you got a lot more work to do a little
bit more work to do in terms of getting
ready for the hunt the Hunt's a whole
lot of work but it's doable
you're closer than you think you're in
the Wiggles of false hope you went
through the trudge you went through the
mud you went through the trough of
sorrow and you're so [__] close
don't take yourself out the game
keep pushing
you're gonna get to the promised land I
promise you
all right
I just need to I just need a little
death session so 10 second Warden
five seconds
four three two one
foreign
[Music]
do it
just do it
all right buddy you can do it you really
can Leon why'd you spend 45 minutes
doing this because I think
there's like three of you that really
needed to hear this
I think there's three of you that are
like I don't know this might be my last
class I think you needed to hear it
you're closer than you think you are
do the bank
that's it every like half people said
the bank is what got them the job do
Bank do your code challenges
do your networking
right
work on your MVP
for your 100 hours project right these
things these things work it's not me I'm
not telling I can shut up now I can stop
talking you don't have to listen to me
go to celebrations Channel and listen to
them they're the ones that are getting
the jobs right now
so if you need to hear it I'm gonna hope
you heard it all right these these
aren't these aren't randos these are
these are folks from the community
literally thanking the community for
helping them get a job you can do it
all right let's point out our social
network uh we're gonna walk through the
layout that we did uh on Tuesday
we'll take our top of the hour break uh
and then when we're done our top of the
hour break uh we will come back and
start working through the code
understanding how this social networking
app is going to uh to work and so let's
go ahead let's look at our plan from
Tuesday take us happy hour break and
then we'll start looking at some real
code
all right
so here is the application that we
decided to build out
we're trying to build out an Instagram
clone uh that has some really core
features uh we have users which we've
already seen with our MVC local off
uh we are going to add a few new things
like individual Pages or specific stuff
right uh we're gonna have individual
Pages for our posts we're going to have
individual uh Pages for our our feed
individual Pages for our profile right
and so how do we actually have these
individual Pages how do we show specific
stuff on these pages and how does it tie
to the data we're keeping track of in
our database that's the goal for today I
want you to be able to see the big
picture right see the big picture see
how these apps come together
hopefully have that moment where it
clicks and goes oh we're using the IDS
to build the individual URLs for our
Pages we're using the IDS to keep track
of our users we're using the IDS to keep
track of what user made which post we're
keeping track of what
post is tied to which comment based on
the IDS
were we supposed to code this out no no
we're gonna we're gonna go over it
tonight right so that's the idea that is
to see how a real full stack app that's
a real social media app where you can
upload photos leave comments do captions
all that stuff comes together that's
what we're going to try and see tonight
and so I want you to see it I want you
to ask questions don't worry about like
coding along or anything like that let's
let's let's let's understand the goal is
understanding C1 do one teach one
all right so
let's think about our
three things we talked about on twos
that we're going to try and build out we
want a profile for each of our users
we want a feed of all our posts and we
want a page for each individual post so
let's think about that page for each
individual post
what does each in chat what does each
individual post have
yeah every single post is going to have
an ID right we know that we are storing
our posts in our post collection uh
based on the model right that had our
schema we said that each post is going
to have like an image URL it's going to
have a number of likes it's going to
have a caption that'll show up as the
text we'll know who created it and
whether or not we deleted it uh because
we can have like soft deleting where it
doesn't actually delete RN but the users
can't see it uh and we know that
whenever a post got added to our post
collection there's going to be a unique
ID that is created for that document
that document that represents that post
so if we are going to have a page for an
individual post would be a really easy
URL to use so that we could see that
post like what's something that we could
do right
yeah we could just use the ID so we
could have a URL that's kind of just
like our
our local host that we're normally used
to seeing we could have a route called
post and then part of the URL could just
be the ID of that post we could
literally just take the ID and put it
into the URL so this post
right is tied to this document in our
collection and the cool thing is if we
know how to get that document out of our
collection we can use all the data to
build what we're seeing on the specific
post page we know that we're on post 501
so we're grabbing this specific post
from our collection and that means we
can use this data to plug in what we see
this image URL gets plugged into our
what this image URL is going to get
plugged into our what
into our ejs it's in the game right so
we get plugged into our ejs so we're
going to use that image URL
right we're going to use that image URL
and we're going to use it so we can
actually load the image that will be
seen uh in our page and so we're going
to take that you're going to plug it
into our ejs our ejs for those that
might be new around here is our
templating language that we're using to
spit out HTML so we use that image URL
to build the image that we see in our
EGS we can take the number of likes and
plug that into the post right we can
take the number we can take who created
it
and plug that into the post uh and we
can do we can take anything like caption
and plug that into the post right so all
we're doing
all we're doing
all we're doing is taking the
information
from this document in our collection
typing it into our ejs that we can have
a specific page for each of our posts
cool
that makes sense questions about that
makes sense cool and so tonight we're
going to see the code that enables us to
do that right
uh we're gonna see how we can we'll see
how we can just we'll see how we can
Define the URL we'll show you how to
we're gonna set up the routing so that
this actually works because it's going
to come down to our API listening for
that route right so we're going to have
part of our router right is listening
for a post URL and when something when
we have that router that can hear the
post URL it's going to call a specific
controller that helps us set up this
post page
right
we'll see malter today yep
cool
uh the code is already shared on Discord
so we already have the URLs already
there if you need it exclamation point
Discord if you're not on Discord and
needed it
cool all right so that's gonna be this
post page the feed page is probably a
little easier why is the feed page
easier
we can just do a normal find that we've
been doing for the past couple of weeks
right just go find all the posts right
go find all the posts in our collection
and uh we can just load them all into
the feed eventually we'll do things like
lazy loading and all that fun stuff
right
um yeah pull all the ones except the
ones that are deleted exactly right uh
we can put all those posts into the feed
and it's just easier
um
we could also maybe do something too
like we had talked about on Tuesday but
we didn't do it maybe we add like a
created app property
that whenever we create a post
right whenever we create a post
uh we also store the time
right maybe we store the time that that
post was mated because once we have the
time we can like now have a really easy
way to show like most recent posts
right
right you could show you could you could
you could show the most recent 10 15
whatever it may be post
cool
and then for the profile page
the profile page
um it's gonna be kind of the same thing
as the post right where we could have a
our just our normal URL we could have a
profile route and then for individual
profiles we could use this number and
what's that number
where's that number coming from so we
could have individual profiles where's
that number coming from
yeah it's coming from the IDS for our
users remember our users are just
documents in our users collection so
every single time a user is created it's
going to have a unique ID and well the
cool thing is we can just use those
unique IDs as our individual Pages for
each user
and if we wanted to we could just have
uh like their username show up based off
of what was stored in the document right
and we could show all their most recent
posts and then we could do one other
really cool thing right
right
we do maybe one other really cool thing
which is
I want to be able to see everyone's
profiles
but if it's my profile I want to be able
to like upload stuff
right if it's my profile I want to be
able to upload stuff how could I tell
if I was on the logged in users profile
like how do I know that I'm not just on
some random person's profile how could I
know that I was on my own profile that
was logged in as
yeah all right remember we have that
remember each request when the user is
logged in has this rec.user property
right because now they're logged in
right they're authenticated we have the
session running since the session is
running we have this lovely rec.user
and there's an ID property on it
so if the logged in user by using this
Rec user ID if that logged in user's ID
matches the ID of the profile page that
we are on
and we know what about that page
we know what about that page
it's mine exactly exactly giant it's
their page it's the logged in users page
right it's the logged in users page if
we're looking at that request and we see
that that Rec
dot user dot ID of the logged in user
matches the ID of the page that we're on
we know that it's we're on the the
logged in users page and we can show
that upload
what would stop the upload what what
what's controlling whether or not this
upload shows up
what is it it's just a what
simple
week three
JavaScript conditional exactly just the
conditional in our ejs
just a conditional in our ejs and that
conditional is going to check and say
hey
if if this is true right like if they're
equal then we can show it boom
cool
now the last thing is these comments
and these comments will save and we'll
talk about when we come back from our
break all right we're at the top of the
hour folks if you're new around these
parts we like to be healthy we like to
to get up if you're able move around
hydrate stretch uh look at something
that's not your screen and we'll be back
in five minutes five minutes folks
all right so you also I'm gonna run some
some ads so other folks don't have to
sit through them
ignoring
foreign
thank you
folks come on back come on back
just just just Farm I wonder how people
we can get to just hang out on the
stream just like
just Bob it's just Bob 24 7 Bob stream
it's just oh it's just it's just a 20
there you go I love that Chris it's a
Pomodoro just Bob
with Pomodoro going
[Laughter]
that'll be good
any chance we can get a Banky voice chat
uh yeah we talked to blah I mean we can
make that happen I think that'd be a
cool idea
bobadoro
it's babadoro time
alrighty folks
let's get into this
all right
oh he on X Games mode I love that meme
all right so we talked about our post
page we talked about the feed we talked
about the profile
and
I think the last thing you talk about is
the comments
all right
welcome Joshua
uh let's talk about this right here
how many how many trips
how many how many how many collections
are we using to make this happen how
many trips are we making here to the DB
to the database how many how many trips
are we making here what are we getting
here
yeah is we're gonna use like three
collections here right let's let's think
about this so for the comment to show up
we need a few things uh the first
request is we load this page right we
load this page
and to load this page we would need to
go and get that post
from the database right
we would use all that information to
start building out what we see here
but to get the username
we need to go somewhere else right to
get the username we saw that the
created by right we can see who it was
created by but it's just the ID of that
user so to get the username
we would need to go
and get the ID of 100 which is the
username of Bob and then once we have
the username we can plug that
or sorry the comments a little different
sorry we can
rewind rewind we get the comment right
the comment enables us to build out this
entire post but when we get to the
comments it's a little bit different
right it's a little different
it's a little different uh we have to to
load this comment we have to go and get
the comment from our database
right and so which comment
would this be
right here
so we went to our post
right we went to our post to load this
entire page with all the information but
to load this area
right to load this area we need to go to
our comments collection and grab
this specific comment and this specific
comment has the text we need of cool
stuff
and it has who made it right but the who
made it is not a username it's the ID of
one of our users so we would need
another request to go and find the ID
match to grab the username of stera to
plug that in
so we're using
all three of our collections here right
we go and load this specific post page
of 501 we have to go and find that post
we grab all the data we need to start
rendering out this post but when we get
to the comments well we have to go get
that comment from the comments
collection
we're able to grab that initial data
which is like cool stuff but if we want
to show the username of the person we
have to go and get their username by
querying
the user's collection to find the 102
match which gives us the username of
Sarah which we can plug in
boom
this feels like an entire person's job
yeah this is this is a back-end web
development let's go
why are we only showing the poster no we
would load all the comments is there's
just there's limitations on what I can
draw
uh but technically we'd have all the
comments like going down the page
right
yeah
cool so let's go ahead and
figure out
how we're going to load all this and
walk through right walk through how all
this would come together so now we're
going to look at the actual code that is
supporting right supporting how all
these different
views are going to eventually be
rendered right
so let's start off with
um
let's start off with the feed I think
the feed might be a little bit easier to
start off with and so I'm going to demo
the application and then we'll look at
the feed first code wise so let me go
ahead and make sure my code is running
yeah code is running
so here's our binary upload Boom app uh
I think we're going to keep the name and
I think most folks were hyped on it
quick pound got vetoed pretty hard if we
feel like we need to change we can do a
pulled to figure out a new name
all right so I'm gonna log in I created
a testy account so testy at testy.com
the password is testy testy
cool and so here is my
uh so the favicon is Bob's face
uh and so that's why that popped up on
my LastPass you can see the favicon up
here in the tab uh the favicon is Bob
cool
so I have testy at testy.com
and
we can see that since I am the logged in
user how can you tell that I'm on my
profile
who's testy no testy's not the test is
not adding to the lore here it's just my
test account or is it
or is it
uh I can see that I can see that my
username and email is there we're big
brain in on that one yes I can see that
my username and email is there for sure
uh but also what we just talked about
right the the form is there if I was on
somebody else's profile uh I wouldn't
see the upload form
right
test is Victor's urologist
[Laughter]
I'm cool with that all right so we know
that we're on our profile let's take a
look at the feed
oh yeah
so here's the feed uh this used to be
open to all 100 devs I had to shut that
down because some of y'all are Reckless
we have a small contingent of
degenerates which is okay you need that
for a good Community but uh so we have
we have a bunch of different posts so on
this feed right on this feed you can see
all the different posts right we have uh
we have our
our lovely fairy from Neopets uh we have
an event Loop we have a poem we have a
Rick Roll we got Pawn Stars which is
like my that's what I fall asleep too if
you ever want to know what I fall asleep
to it's Pawn Stars
um we have a frog we have a lizard on a
dog these are all different users that
have made different posts on our 100
deaf social network uh and so we we just
have a lot of stuff that could upload it
and so we can see all the different
posts that are in our feed
uh if we click on a specific post right
we're just on slash feed if we click on
a specific post uh we can go to that
specific post uh we can like it
we can see the caption
and at any point in time we can return
back to our profile or return back to
the feed so I go back to my profile and
here we go
and um maybe go back to the feed one
more time
let's go ahead and just click a
different a different image here
um
uh we can see it we can like it if we
want we can return to the feed like it's
just a it's just a pretty cool app we
can turn back to our profile
um let's try uploading uh a post
so let's go ahead and try like making a
new post just to make sure that it works
just so we can see it working
[Music]
make sure I have some photos I do all
right
so let's go ahead and do
we'll start off we'll start off with
Mira for obvious reasons uh and so
Neopets
is life
and we're going to go ahead and choose a
file
we're going to go ahead Neopets fairies
here we're going to go ahead and grab
Mira I'm just gonna go ahead and open
that up
and then we're going to go ahead and
submit it
right and so now since we're still on
our profile
right since we're still on our profile
we can still see our first post which is
uh mirror let's go ahead and do
[Music]
um
Thea as well because we're just here
all right let's go ahead and upload a
Thea here
here we go
submit there we go
uh let's not ask questions about why I
have these ready to go
just
just to keep it what it is just okay
they know what they're doing come on
hold on
Olsen
come on now
I mean life right they know it come on
they know what they're doing you ready
there we go
they know what they they know what
they're doing
don't don't put that on me they know
what they're doing right so we can click
on our individual posts we can see
Neopets is life
uh we can we can even like our own post
which is pretty interesting uh if we
wanted to we could delete our post uh
we'll notice here that this trash can is
here
right
we can see the trash can is here
right some of you are getting activated
right now that's kind of cool
um but you can see this this trash can
right here right and you can you can you
can click it because why why is this
trash can showing up let's go back to
the feed
let's click on like this event Loop why
is there no trash can here
Rusty a thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
because it's not mine right it's not my
post so we know that there is some some
good stuff happening here where we can
only delete the post right
we can we can only delete the post if we
made it right so that that's a good
feature that we have in here uh we have
the ability to like any posts we can
only delete our posts we have the
ability to go to our profile and on our
profile it shows just the post that we
made
right just the post that we made uh if
we go to the feed
it's everyone's posts and we can kind of
like click on everyone's posts
uh I don't have usernames we don't have
usernames yet
um but I do like the or do we hold on
let's go back let's go back to feed
oh we do boom there we go
oh no that's just the the title we put
in so we don't have usernames we we
should eventually put usernames in here
so we can see who made the post and be
able to go to their specific profiles
that might be something hint hint for
y'all to build later so let's just let's
just do it one more time I'm gonna log
out
I'm gonna log out we're gonna walk
through the whole thing so I'm going to
log in
testy
oh sorry test yet testy.com
hey today
testy testy
fail
there we go testy testy
all right so we logged in
we log in
third try when we log in we can see
uh we can see the post that I made
we had the ability to add a post
yeah exactly See Clearly it was just to
show that our flash notifications are
working right the the the login flash
notifications are working I inputed the
wrong password it worked
um
we're able to go to our feed see all the
posts of the logged in users
and we're able to click on individual
posts we're able to click the like
button and if it's our post we'll have a
trash can and if we return to our
profile there it is so we have
we have a
pretty solid
social network right
right like it we have the ability to
make posts
we have the ability to like see a feed
of all the posts we have the ability to
see each individual post
and we can like them and we can Trash
our own and maybe for homework you're
going to add comments and usernames on
the post right we're coming from Myspace
exactly uh and so
let's just take a look at this real
quick I'm going to click on this post of
Mira here and
what did you notice about the URL what
could you tell me by looking at this URL
yeah we know that this is working
because
this ID right this ID
is probably tied to this specific well
it is tied to the specific post
and so when I am clicking from the feed
or I'm clicking for my profile without
even looking at the code without even
looking at the
ejs what do you know is in the ejs for
each one of these posts
what's in the ejs without even looking
at it yet
yeah it and specifically it's an anchor
tag
right an anchor tag where we plugged in
right
an anchor tag where you plugged in that
ID so if we inspect
we can actually see it
that the actual anchor tag right the
actual anchor tag
is a link
to the post route
with the individual posts ID
so any single time that we created a
like a post that's showing up in the
profile like in our ejs right in our ejs
we have a for Loop right
and that for Loop is building out these
lies right that have an anchor tag and
those anchor tags are links to the post
route with the ID of that post and so
that way I can just click on it and get
taken to that specific post based on
that post ID
right so when I'm actually rendering out
this page
when I'm rendering out this page and I'm
grabbing my post I'm grabbing all the
data about that post
right I'm grabbing all the data about
that post and what I'm doing is building
out an anchor tag right that has an href
that has the value of post
slash whatever that ID is
all right
so that way when I click on that anchor
tag
it takes me to that individual post page
right and so a lot of this is going to
be
all right
how do we build out these Pages how do
we get the data that we need how do we
plug that data right
how do we plug that data
uh into
the ejs so that we can make stuff that's
clickable going to the right places and
all that wonderful fun stuff so we've
kind of walked through the application
we've kind of seen it working
um let's go to the feed page and talk
through kind of code wise what's just
happened here I went to the feed page
localhost 2121 21
feed what route did I just trigger
what route did I send a request to
slash feed right right we went to we
went to locals 2121 slash feed so the
route we went to is Slash
speed now let's go ahead and take a look
at our code
um on our server.js file
we have two kind of routes
we have our main routes and we have our
post routes
uh with Slash post
with Slash Post in our route
that we just went to
no so let's go ahead and take a look at
Main routes then so main routes is going
to require us to go into our routes
folder and find the main routes so if we
go into our routes folder and we find
the main routes we can see all right we
made what type of request to the feed
route
what type of request do we we make to
the to the to the feed route
thank you chat it was a get request so
in our main routes we have something set
up that's listening for a get request
right a get request
on the feed route so we're good so far
and what do we check here
what are we checking for here on this
next this next little bit here
we already we know that we have a a
route to set up to here the get request
on the feed route we're making sure that
they're logged in
right so if folks are not logged in they
can't see the feed right we could make
it I could just remove insure off here
and then anyone could be able to view
the feed they wouldn't have to log in so
I think like if you go onto some social
media sites you can like scroll through
without being logged in that's how we're
doing it right here but we decided I
decided to say you know what they can
only see the feed if they're logged in
so we check to see if we're logged in
uh same and sure off that we used with
the the previous application right and
so uh I don't know if you ever like
clicked like an Instagram link when
you're on your browser and you're not
logged in they like make you go to sign
up that's exactly what we're doing here
we're saying sign up you gotta join The
Social Network 100 Dev social network if
you want to see uh all the wonderful
posts of Neopets fairies we can't be
giving that away for free
um
and so we we ensured that we were logged
in
right and here's the controller we're
going to use we're going to use the post
controller and we're going to use the
get feed method post controller get feed
method so let's look at our posts
controller beautiful
here's our get feed
method beautiful and so our get feed
method is pretty straightforward we're
going to find all of our posts
right we're going to find all of our
posts and we're going to sort them whoop
we're going to sort them
by the time they were created at in
descending order
all right we're going to find them and
sort them in descending order so that
way we can right we can see our posts in
a specific order going down the page
this is all Mongoose yep it's all
mongoose
it's all mongoose
right now
what is post
it's our model right it's our model so
even if you didn't have access to my
database and you wanted to see like what
data is going to be in our database
right like how do I sorry how do I know
there's a created at property right if
you you don't have access to my database
right now because I've I've IP locked it
but
how would you know there's a credit app
we can look at the schema on the model
let's take a look here's our post model
we can see that every single post that's
going to be created right will have a
title property
an image string
a cloudinary ID which we'll get to in a
little bit
a caption a number of likes a user like
the person that actually made it
we're gonna have a created at
right a creator that
and we can see all of this just from the
model
it's just from the schema that's here on
the model and so we can see that there's
this created at and we can even see what
type it is
right we can even see what type it is
what type is it
don't get caught up on this stuff yet
we'll get to it because it's a date type
so we know that we are storing the
created at by its date right we're
storing that along with each post that
we make every single post is going to
have a title an image a cloudinary idea
caption a number of likes a user and a
created app
and we can see that the created that's
going to be a date and what do we know
about like dates that we saw with with
JavaScript and by extension now in this
environment node what do we know about
our dates they're not just like it's not
just like us it has has a lot to it
yeah it's long it has also has like it
also has like the time right it's not
just the date it's also yeah it's a it's
a UTC object hey there we go it's the
date and the time right so it gives you
a bunch of all this other all this other
stuff right uh so that's how we can use
it to figure out like when things were
posted
right
cool so we're looking at our post
controller
and we just said hey
go to our
database
go to the Post collection right that's
all stored right here go to our database
because we're using Mongoose go to our
database
go to the Post collection
find all the posts it's the same thing
it's the same thing as going here
and grabbing all the posts
right grabbing all the posts but
we want the posts right when we get the
posts back
when we get the post back we want them
in descending order based on the created
at date right so that's how we can keep
them in order you can you can also do
ascending if you want it to but we're
going to go descending so we can go down
the the timeline
we get all of that data right we get all
of that data all of the posts
all of the posts right all of the posts
right that are sorted and we're storing
it in the variable posts and what are we
going to do with that variable post
that's holding all of our posts what are
we going to do with it remember this is
automatically giving us an array of
posts
right it's automatically giving us an
array of posts what are we going to do
with it
yeah we're gonna pass it to the ejs
right we're going to pass it to the ejs
right and when we pass it to the ejs
what are we going to name our post
inside the ejs
what are we gonna what are we gonna what
are we going to
what are we going to call our post
inside of our ejs
I'm gonna call it close
we're gonna call it posts all right we
need to change we're not we're not doing
anything wild today we're going to call
it post so let's look at our ejs
we're going to look at our feed ejs file
feed ejs let's take a look at it
feed ejs oh got fancy here look at this
ejs folks we're using partials now
my header and my footer is going to be
the same on most of my pages so I made a
partial
right you can see I have this partials
folder that has my header and footer
right so I don't have to constantly put
all this stuff like I don't have to
constantly put
all this stuff
right I don't have to put that at the
top of every single file
right I don't have to link to my CSS I
don't have to link to font awesome
I don't have to uh do all of that stuff
that would have to be at the top
I don't have the link to bootstrap if
you're noticing a lot of my stuff just
looks nice I haven't really done any
style yet I haven't done any style it's
just bootstrap that I'm using so I put
all of that inside a header and then I
can just use that partial on any page I
don't have to constantly be retyping
yeah automatically automatically comes
in I'm doing the same thing for my
footer if we look at the footer ejs I'm
just putting my bootstrap I needed some
some javascripty stuff from bootstrap so
that's just so I don't have to do it for
every single page right
right out to bring back every single
page and so on my feed ejs you're going
to see that I'm just including my header
that I already wrote and my footer that
I already wrote
and um I don't have to constantly redo
it pretty nifty
all right
so inside the feed ejs
we have our for Loop that's looping
through each post
right lip looping through each post
and we're building An Li for each post
and each of these allies right each of
these lies is going to be an anchor tag
to a specific post route
and we're just plugging in the ID of
each post
right so when I went to my feed EGS
let's step back for a second I went to
this page right I went to this page I
tried to load this page
right
I tried to go to this page
to go to this page I had to make a
request
I made a git request I had the route
right I had the route set up that heard
that get request on the feed route
I checked to make sure I was logged in I
went to my post controller and I went to
the get feed method
the get feed method said hey go to the
Post collection
get all the posts in descending order
went to my post collection right we can
look at it
let's go ahead and look at it it's a VPN
don't worry uh went to my post
collection let's browse the collections
oh no
what's in my post collection
right go to my post collections I
grabbed all these posts right
grabbed all these posts right grabbed
all these posts
all right grabbed all these posts you
can see my most recent post Neopets is
life Neopets is life
Neopets live uh you can see the event
Loop photo you can see the Vulgar
Display of Power that was Pawn Stars
right we can see all the posts I grabbed
all those posts
right grabbed all those posts
and once I had all those posts I passed
all those objects right all those
objects into my ejs
and then all I did is I looped through
each one of them and I grabbed the stuff
that I needed right right now I need the
ID of each post right to get that first
ferry to show up right I need their ID
so I grabbed the ID yoink I grab the ID
right grab the ID
and I'm plugging that into my href
right logging it into my href
then
I want to grab the image to show the
image and the feed well I need to grab
the image property from that post so I
grabbed the ID for the first bit and
then I grabbed this image property and
this image property is actually the link
to where my image is stored
right so where my link to my images
actually stored so I grab that link to
where my images actually stored
and I plug that in as the source of the
image
so now I have an Li
that has a link
right that has a link
to an individual page
and I have the image
that was based on the URL that was
stored in my collection
right
now the interesting thing is that you'll
notice where am I actually storing my
images
yeah I'm using a third-party service
called cloudinary to store my images
and so when I upload an image right when
I upload an image I send the image to
cloudinary and what does cloudinary send
back
yeah they give me a URL
they give me a URL
right so I send an image to cloudinary
cloudinary stores it on their server
and they give me a URL for that image so
that's what I'm storing in my database
I'm not storing the image in my database
I'm storing the URL right I'm storing
the URL that they have given me
right that they have given me so that I
can eventually render
the images that we see in the feed
I just really hope people are like
joining us live and this is all they see
um right so this is this is the image
that came back from cloudinary that I
plugged into my ejs to render the feed
and so if we look at these lies right if
we just if we just inspect element
we're going to see that each of these is
an Li that has an anchor tag that
includes the ID that came from the post
document in the post collection and has
that URL that's from cloudinary because
that's the information I have for that
post in my post collection I look at the
next one it's the same thing it's an Li
with the ID of the post and the image
from cloudinary next one same thing
right same thing we're just going all
the way down looking at each of these
cool
uh is cloudinary free
do I ever
recommend something
that is not free
ever
nah not what we do around here
every single thing you need to become a
software engineer you can do for free
right
so
cloudnary is free you can create a free
account I'm using a free account right
now and uh you don't even need a credit
card that's the other big thing I really
try for I try really hard to find all
free resources they don't even need a
credit card for
um
because I want everyone to be able to do
this
yeah so it's free yep
cool
all right so that's our feeders
rendering
um but interestingly
interestingly enough I can click on this
image right I can click on this image
right and when I click on this image
what am I using like let's not let's not
overthink this clicking means that it's
a what
history
clicking means that this is if I'm going
to click on this what is it
it's either a Smurf or it's something
else right it's a Smurf or one other
thing it's an anchor tag and we know
that this is an anchor tag we just saw
like look look at the inspector
we know it's an anchor tag and when I
click on it it's going to take me
to slash post and then the ID of the
post that came from my document in the
post collection look look we see this
it's an anchor tag that's going to take
me to slash post
and then the actual ID right
where the heck did Slash posts come from
where did that come from how's that part
of the anchor tag
I hard coded it in the ejs take a look
I know it's gonna be a route it's
eventually going to be around the
application but people are like how do
you create the URL boom I hard coded it
into the URL
right look I hard coded slash post and
then I plug in the ID
right I could have called this
zaboomafoo and then when people clicked
on it would have taken them to slash
zaboomafoo and then the ID but I want
I want my posts right I want my post
right I want my post to be
slash post like I went that's the route
I want it to be right I want that to be
my route so I hard code it and then I
plug in the ID
man this is the easiest engagement I've
ever gotten in my life it's too easy
we've been doing this for too long this
is this has just been uh like oh my gosh
thank you there have been people that
haven't been posted in three months that
I've been posting right now thank you I
appreciate it I I appreciate the
engagement uh I I'm really happy that
you're back thank you for being here
it's so good to see you I'm glad you're
here
the fairy picks did it
all right
so we have allies
that are creating each of the LI that
has an actual link to a post let's let's
go ahead and click that post
let's go ahead and click it
boom you can see that we got taken two
slash post and then the ID so what type
of request did I just make
I just made a get request right a get
request on what route
a get request on what route
all right all right we're starting to
think through it a little bit here slash
post and then what else was part of the
route
the ID right the idea is also part of it
so let's go and take a look at that that
just walk through it
start the server.js
was it a post route
yes we're on slash post it was a post
route all right so we're going to need
post routes let's go back up to the top
post routes requires us to go to the
routes folder and find the post route so
here we go here are the post routes in
the routes folder
now here's where it's a little tricky
on slash post
was it line eight line ten line 12 or
line 14 that we triggered was it slash
post slash create post
was it slash post slash leg post was it
slash post slash delete post or was it
just slash
yeah line eight right and so the cool
thing here
is this little bit of code right here
the colon
ID
this is like setting up a parameter
that's going to enable us to grab the
value out of the URL
right it's setting up yeah a query
parameter it's a query program it's
going to enable us to grab the value out
of the URL because I have this colon ID
I'm going to be able to grab that value
now I'm on a specific post page
I'm ensuring that I'm also what
you can't see nothing in this app
without what
logging in beautiful so I know that I I
just went to slash post I'm going to be
able to Joint that ID out of the URL I'm
still logged in I'm going to go to the
Post controller and I'm going to use the
get post method all right
post controller
get post method beautiful beautiful
method here all right
post
find by ID
what do you think this method's going to
do
right what do you think this method's
going to do just just by what do you
think this method does we know that post
is talking to our database is going to
the post collection what do you think
this method's gonna do
yeah it's going to find a specific
document
based on its ID
now the magic here
is that since I did this colon ID
I can grab whatever comes there in the
URL
right I can grab that value and I can
grab that value by doing Rec dot
params.id let me let me actually copy
the URL so it's a little easier to see
right
I'm just gonna this is gonna it's gonna
look weird but I'm just gonna paste it
here right so that's the URL we went to
we know that we were on the post route
so anything that came here was ID
right anything that was passed there was
ID
so what it was here was this number so
what I'm able to do is I am able to say
all right
here's my query parameters called ID
as part of this request
this request came through I am able to
look at this part of the URL
right I'm able to grab it
and I'm able to plop it right here
so now
I am going to go
to my post collection in my database I'm
going to find a specific post that has
this ID
right my specific document that has this
i d
right because on this line let's grab
this describe this line of code here too
just so we can see it I like having it
on one line
in one spot so we can see it
right the route said hey you're on slash
post so it says though we had this right
here right let's let's replace it
yoink it's as though we said this right
that's exactly the same thing we're
saying there we're saying all right you
went to this URL you made a get request
to this URL
beautiful you made a get request to this
URL
anything that comes after the slash
we're gonna call ID
right
we're going to call ID
we could have called it
rainbow
right but if I called it rainbow what do
I have to change
I have to change this to Rainbow
this is the variable
this is the variable that I am using to
be able to pull the value out of the URL
it's a query parameter just like we did
apis and we had query parameters plugged
into right just like when we were using
apis and we had query parameters in the
URL the way we are getting the query
parameters out of this URL is by saying
rec.params and whatever the heck we put
after this colon
right
so if I call this
something else I could call it SpongeBob
well then this has to be called
SpongeBob too
right it's how I am grabbing it is how I
am grabbing
right it is how I am grabbing this part
of the Euro that's it
that's it
so let's tidy it back up we gotta change
this back from SpongeBob to ID
we went to
localhost 2121
slash post
slash with the ID
right
with an ID
right with an ID
and so I'm going to be able to grab this
value out
right I'm able to grab this value out
right when we look at the route
I am going to be able to grab this value
whatever is in the URL I'm going to be
able to grab it I'm going to call it i d
so
when I go to my post controller
and I ask for rec param's ID I'm saying
hey the request that just came in
localhost 2121 slash post slash that
long string give me that long string
give me that value that was part of the
URL
and once I have it
right once I have it I can go to my
posts collection I can find a post that
has that ID we look we go to our post
collection all right boom here's the ID
it matches so I'm going to grab this
post
once I have just that post
right once I have just that post
I can send it to my post ejs
right I can send it to my post ejs
right we can see it's called post here
I'm not changing it up inside the ejs
I'm going to call it post and I'm also
passing something else to my ejs called
user
where the heck is user coming from
how do I have like this other this
rec.user what the heck is that
yeah
the current session since we are
currently logged in we currently have a
session running we can always whenever
any request comes through there's also
that user property on that request that
comes through
right and as it comes through right as
it comes through I can oink it so I was
able to find the individual post
I was able to find the logged in user
and I passed all of that into my ejs
let's look at our post ejs go to our
views
post ejs you can see I'm using my
partial for my header I'm using my
partial for my footer and I'm just going
to start plugging in everything I need
to plug in
right I'm gonna start plugging in
everything I need to plug in to build
out this post page
I can plug in
I can plug in the image that's from the
post I can plug in the title from the
post uh I'm doing something funky here
for the the delete buttons and the likes
but we'll get to that later right we
also have the the delete like the trash
can here right so I'm just able to grab
all of that stuff and plug it into my
ejs right so
foreign
to get to this page
I was on
the feed
I clicked the link
that made a get request on the post
route that also included this
string which is the ID for this specific
post that we're looking at
I can use that information to go to my
database and just get this specifics
post information I go and get all this
post information I plug it into my ejs
and that's how I can see this specific
post
um
questions and we'll take a break
Magic
with Rec user related to cookies yeah
since we have that logged in session
every request that comes through has a
user property I'll show it to you
um I'll show it to you when we come back
from break I'll actually console log
everything so we can see the different
parts of the requests that are coming
through
any reason using for Loop in the ejis
versus for each engagement
uh we in past examples we've used for
each yeah
connecting the dots I hope so that's the
point tonight is to start trying
connecting some dots
Thai love hey thank you for the gifted
Subs I appreciate that thank you for
being here
cool
all I see is Instagram
all right how many hours should we
devote to our 100 hours project uh 100
hours
uh seeking truth said I don't see any
server-side JS in the sample code are
you doing all of this with anchor links
and routes no event listeners I am we're
going to talk about method override uh
later today
let me come back
oh the MVP
uh the MVP uh that's up to you
probably a hundred dollars for your MVP
to be real
and then you put the finishing touches
on it
all right folks let's go ahead and take
a break uh we will be back in five
minutes thank you everybody for being
here uh if you're new around these parts
like take a break at the top of every
hour make sure you're hydrating make
sure you get up walk around hydrate look
at something that's not your screen and
we'll be back in five
foreign
[Music]
your call thank you for the two extra
minutes some minutes on the timer folks
foreign
[Music]
thank you
all right folks welcome back welcome
back
so uh let's go ahead and console log
kind of these requests and see them
coming in so let's go back to this page
here
go to our controller
and let's just console log
uh the request
we can see like the massive requests and
then we'll console log
uh or console log Rec
.params and then we'll console.log
um
rec.user just so we can see everything
there we go so our server restart it
uh let's refresh
uh we're logged in still so that refresh
should have worked how how am I still
logged in
What specifically about the session
remember our sessions are also stored
right so like if I go away server goes
away our sessions aren't stored on the
server they're not stored on the client
they're necessary they're stored in the
database right so the the the sessions
like the server can restart
um are we can we can leave the tab and
come back and our sessions can still be
open because we're we're using that
session storage we have that session
collection or mongodb so that we can
um keep the sessions going no matter
what happens let's see if
that restart was enough
to console log everything
all right here we go
so we can see above here is the massive
request right like all that crap every
single request that we make look I just
console logged the request we gotta keep
this in mind every request that we are
making is sending all of this wild data
with every single request right and then
we asked for a few specific things we
asked for we can actually see a part of
the request that the user object is here
right we can see that part of the
request
um we can even see like the route that
they're on and stuff like that so all
that's part of the request all this wild
stuff comes along with the request you
can see that like I was using Chrome and
all these other things that came along
with the request and then I asked for
two very specific things
I asked for the request Dot params and
we can see that that's just an object
right the query parameters are just an
object so where the heck did this ID
property come from
where did this ID property come from
it came from me calling it
colon ID here in the routes
let's change this it's going to break
some stuff but we should still be able
to see the request let's change this to
Rainbow
unicorn
right we call this rainbow unicorn
I think that this will break because
we're not going to actually call that in
our thing but let's let's see if the
request still goes through
all right
all right so the request did go through
but you can see that when I changed it
to rainbow unicorn the property was
called rainbow unicorn but it still
grabbed that value from the URL
right we're just this right here is just
whatever we're gonna call it
right and since and since we know inside
of our URL this is an ID
right since we know that this is an ID
it makes sense that we call our query
parameter ID but we can call it whatever
the heck we want right it's just that it
probably makes sense to call it ID it's
just a label yeah it's just it's just a
it's a parameter like don't don't throw
out all the hard work you did
understanding functions right don't
throw out all the hard work you did
learning apis it's the same [__] same
stuff right
it's just it's just a it's just a
variable right it's just a variable it's
just holding a value and that specific
value is just coming from the URL
right so we could lay we could leave it
rainbow unicorn
um what would we have to change here for
it to work
we could leave it rainbow unicorn what
do we have to change what line and what
do we have to change for this to work
yeah we got a change on line 26 we gotta
change this from ID
to Rainbow
unicorn
right now rainbow unicorn knows to grab
it knows to grab the value out of the
URL
and now knows to grab this value out of
the URL when we see this URL we can grab
this 631a all the way to 874 this value
will now be known as rainbow unicorn in
our application
right it'll be known as rainbow unicorn
that's saved
let's save this
and let's go ahead and do our
refresh and now it works
right now it works right we changed it
to rainbow unicorn rainbow unicorn is
going to grab this value which we know
is the ID out of the URL
we're doing it here right in the routes
we're setting it up hey here's my query
parameter my query parameter is called
rainbow unicorn
all right it's called rainbow unicorn
when you use rainbow unicorn when you do
request.params.rainbow unicorn you're
grabbing that part of the URL
and so that's what we're doing here
we're saying hey look at the request
that came through look at the query
parameters that came in go back to our
API class right grab the query
parameters that are coming along with
that request when we look at the request
right
here's here's the request
right here's the request anything after
that request is our query parameter so
we're saying grab that query parameter
the the the variable name that we gave
the create parameters rainbow unicorn it
works it's grabbing that unique ID like
that string of numbers and letters and
we're plugging that string of numbers
and letters in here because we know when
we go to our post collection
right when we go to our post collection
in our database and we do find by ID we
can use that string the
631-874 to find this this
specific post so we can grab all the
stuff right grab all the stuff
and pass it to our ejs
cool
let's go back I don't like calling it
rainbow unicorn I do since we know that
it's an idea like calling an ID
um but I think what I want people to
realize is that it's just the name we
gave it it's just the variable name that
we gave we can call it whatever we want
we call it rainbow unicorn and it still
works
so the idea is a query power just like
we did with our apis exactly it's the
same thing
it's the exact same thing
with our when when we were doing
um when we were doing apis right when we
were doing apis
when we were doing apis we'd have
something like this like um who was one
of them we used a lot
dog CP dog CEO
dog CEO
dot API slat and this person is like
this would be like I don't know
uh breed
and then we put something in here like
I don't know German Shepherd
right
that's what we did when we were using
apis right we had the question mark and
anything else after the question mark
was our query parameter right so in this
case the query parameter equaled German
Shepherd we're doing the exact same
thing here instead of it being dog CEO
CEO we're doing localhost
query parameter ID and then it winds up
being this long Ash string
all right
winds up being that long string
that's it so don't you don't have to
change up your pattern it's still a
query parameter in fact we can even set
it up to do like the question mark and
stuff in here if we wanted to uh it's
just a it's just an easier way of doing
it
right same thing query parameter of ID
we could have called this rainbow
unicorn
right that could have been the the query
parameter same thing here then we would
have to change this to the rainbow
unicorn same thing it just enables us to
grab this value out of the URL cool now
that we have that value out of the URL
right once we have that value out of the
URL we can use it we can use that value
which is the we know it's the ID to go
to our post collection and find a post
with that specific ID and when we find
it we can pass all that post information
to our post ejs so that we can get the
HTML
that shows up to our users here
uh it's query parameter our choice yeah
it is your choice
um
there's slightly different things you
need to do to grab it but you can use
the question marks if you wanted to
I think this just looks cleaner
cool
all right
so that was getting an individual post
I'm going to remove these console logs
so we don't have to like go through a
sea of stuff every time
so that was we saw the feed
we saw the feed
we saw the post
let's look at the profile let's look at
the profile
let's look at the profile
all right so we went to slash profile
what type of request did I just make
a get request nice made it get request
uh what am I am I on a post route
amount of post drought
nah
let's start our server.js
all right
it's not a post route so it is one of
the main routes so let's go to our main
routes main routes requires us to go to
the routes folder and find the main
route here we go here's our main route
it was a get request on slash profile
uh we are ensuring
that we are logged in
right we're ensuring that we are logged
in
and we're going to use the post
controller
right post controller
and the get profile method so let's go
to our post controller
let's go to the get profile method
here's the get profile method
what I'm going to do
is I am going to go to my post
collection and I am going to find a
document
I am going to find a document
right
going to find a document that has a user
property that has a user property of
what
a user property of what
right now I'm looking at the logged in
user right I'm going to look at the ID
of the logged in user so
what do we know about this profile page
if we go to slash profile there's
something very specific this profile
only works for what
this profile only works for who
the the logged in user right we haven't
set up a a part of the controller that
could load any user's profile eventually
if we were to extend this and we will if
we were to extend this our individual
posts would have like their username and
we could like click that username to go
to their profile that's adding a little
bit more complexity but right now we can
see just by looking at the code we're
going to find just the post
right because we're going to our post
collection we're going to find all the
posts
from the logged in user because if we go
back and we look at our post collection
all right we look at our post collection
we can see that each post right each
post has a user
with a specific ID
and this specific ID is the ID of the
user who made the post so what I can do
is I can say hey who's logged in
and since they are logged in I can check
through all the posts and just grab the
posts of the logged in user right so we
can see 5da 5da 5da this post here is
739 so that's not a post of the logged
in user when we do the find of the
logged in user right we will only find
their posts
right
right you'll find only their posts
and so how am I getting the logged in
user remember with every single request
that is being sent if the user is logged
in you are also sending this part of the
request the logged in user's info we can
console log us console log it
rec.user let's save it
um oh I didn't console log it
let's console log it
let's save it and now when I load the
profile page we should get that lovely
console log
all right let's go back take a look
all right
we can see that we console logged
rec.user
and a part of rec.user
right part of rec.user is the user's ID
5da
the username of testy their email and
their hashed password
all right so whenever we do that
rec.user we can grab any of these
properties and so I'm able to grab the
ID property off of that rec.user
so that's how I'm able to find just
their post we can see 5da if we go and
look in our database
all right
user has the idea 5da
user has the idea 5da user has the ID
739 so that's not it these the rest of
these are not our user it's just these
three
right it's just it's just these three
and so we're able to use that logged in
user to just show right to just show the
post of the logged in user
save this
now there's quite a few other things
that we have to do here
right there's a few other things we have
to do here so far we haven't seen liking
we haven't done the trash cans yet but I
want to pause here for a second see some
questions come through and then we'll
we'll look at this last bit and then
we'll we'll end uh for the evening
uh how come ID has an underscore in
front of it uh that's it's generated by
mongodb on their end we can get into
things like private public variables and
all that fun stuff we kind of talked
about doing our objects lecture the cool
thing is that when you are doing the
rec.user you can just do ID and and if
you forget about it it's totally fine
uh we haven't filtered out deleted post
yet that's not something we've
implemented
uh the lean is just helping me to format
something specifically so that it's it's
like how the objects that come back from
Mongoose are structured let's not Mill
people's minds a little bit more than we
need to tonight we'll get into it next
week but for now it just helps you
structure the data in a specific way
uh someone it doesn't matter you can use
it interchangeably that's the power of
uh mongoose
oh
yeah EGS can be pretty powerful you can
do some pretty specific stuff
um with EGS
do you have two different color eyes yes
I have two different color eyes
heterochromia
can we go over ejs again boy can we
this Sunday
we will have a full review this Sunday
come on
on through for our super review Sunday
Sunday Sunday don't delay by today
Sunday super review
uh can we render the profile EGS and see
what the objects post and yeah let's
take a look at that so um we we handed
off all the posts for the logged in user
to the profile ejs but we haven't looked
at the profile each so let's go to our
our views here
running through the six all right and so
in the inside of the profile EGS you can
see
um we're using the the logged in users
username we're using the logged in users
email and that's how we're able to show
the username and the email
we have a form for them to upload uh
their images which we we haven't even
gotten to uploading images yet that's a
whole that's a whole beast in of itself
so we have this whole form to upload
images right
and then we have our for loop again
that's looping through
and it's building the Li's for each post
remember we went to the database we
found all the posts that were for that
logged in user and now we're building
the Lis for each of those posts with the
uh post ID that comes from the randomly
generated uh document and then we have
the actual URL that's coming from
cloudinary and we're plugging that in to
build the profile
oh
all right
uh we got like 25 minutes left I feel
like we've melted enough brains for this
evening uh what we'll do is we're gonna
stop here
uh what I need you to do this weekend
especially if you are not coming to the
super review because we'll go into some
of this during the Super review uh what
I need you to do is I need to look at
this code
I need you to step through it just like
we did tonight
right I need you to uh set up your EnV
file which means you're going to need a
cloudinary account
right you're gonna need a cloudinary
account
you're going to need your [__] Atlas
account you're going to need all these
kind of like the the things that are
going to go in the EnV file you can read
the readme right you can read the readme
uh to to see the things that you need to
put in that EnV file
step through it
I'll post the image as well of our our
layout that we did and on the Whiteboard
see if you can step through
the big thing here
is understanding how we're using the IDS
to connect all the pieces
if you can get to the point where you
understand oh we're just using IDs to
render posts we're just using IDs to
render profiles we're like we're just
using the IDS to build out the app if
you can get there you're good that's
that's all you need to be right now
right there's a lot of other things here
that we start to go deeper into that we
have to explain so on Tuesday we'll go
deeper into this we'll look at something
else if we had a chance to look through
um we'll revisit some of the things that
folks need to revisit and then we're
gonna actually build this from scratch
so we'll be able to see everything come
together as well
um at probably the next office hours and
so
lots of chances to go through it uh we
still have a lot of stuff to cover that
we haven't covered yet we haven't hit
multi yet we haven't hit some of the big
pieces of this but I don't need you to
do that yet I almost don't want you to
do that yet I want you just to focus on
the things that we just covered can you
see the IDS can you see how the app is
being connected and coming together
because if you can do that
you're in a really really good spot
like I said this is this is kind of it
folks you understand how this works and
comes together you can build whatever
app you want to build
that's it and so spend time going
through this code spend time looking at
the uh Pro like the actual whiteboard
that we've done remember Tuesday your
Hit List is done use The Hit List magic
right
use The Hit List magic finish up that
hit list you want to be part of
hunttober I need that hit list done
right uh you can do this I know this is
a lot especially if you um
haven't had a chance to to wrestle with
this code yet had a chance to wrestle
with the homework yet uh please make
sure you spend some time going through
it please make sure you get in the rest
of the stuff that you need to get done
for homework this weekend and use
Discord jump on Discord jump into uh
voice channels ask questions there's a
lot of little stuff that we haven't we
didn't really get a chance to talk about
maybe you need to learn maybe you need
to understand a little bit more about
how the query parameters work ask right
ask you lean on the community we're
Community taught let's go ahead and set
up a raid
turned on a raid in a minute
I mean I'm talking about specific people
um
let's go ahead get these sweet sweet
Channel points
50 sweet sweet Channel points
let's go over to CM Griffin we haven't
been over there in a minute
all right
be kind to yourself this weekend please
go through this code work through it on
your own work through it on Discord
together uh make sure you're taking time
to digest it this Sunday super review
super excited to go through the full
back end the full back end tomorrow
sorry on Sunday fullback and everything
you need to know to be a back-end
developer coming through on Sunday tell
your friends bring a friend and uh come
ready to put in some work and then next
week we're gonna keep digging into this
like I said this is kind of it once we
understand this you can build whatever
you want you can build your MVP for your
100 hours project and then we'll add a
little bit of sprinkling react We'll add
a little bit data structures algorithms
and we start the hunt baby
let's go all right everybody have a
wonderful rest of your day let's raid
let's
go hey
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah
hey good morning good afternoon good
evening no matter where you're coming
from hope you all are doing well welcome
back
let's go welcome back everybody hope you
all are doing well the the dreadic
computer restart folks the dreaded
computer restart I I Rue the day I had
to restart my computer everything gets
messed up hope you all are doing well it
took me a second to get the music right
but we can't start out the music
you can have a stream without the music
let's go welcome back everybody hope you
all are doing well hope you all are here
yeah all right uh we had a good week
last week we got into our social
networking app or our social media app
that we're going to get into more today
uh on Sunday we had a six hour super
review and we're still not done
still not done
all right still not done uh we're gonna
bring it back next Sunday and uh finish
up looking through off again looking
through
um looking through even this app that
we're gonna finish up this week so if
you need to run it back we'll be back as
well uh so I actually think the Sunday
super review is actually really helpful
for some of the stuff we're tackling
today like the method override that's
tripping up a lot of folks now the stuff
we talked about on Sunday will revisit
again today just to help those Concepts
sink in a
uh there is uh two odd things uh today
uh one no newsletter uh so no newsletter
went out today and our tweet is a little
bit different but we're going to talk
about that in a second so as always I
like to give both a few seconds to get
here
a few seconds to get here
oh boy
oh boy uh there is somebody in here
before chat
that did gifted Subs I don't I don't
know who it was but whoever it was thank
you I I didn't catch who did the the
donated Subs the gifted Subs
um but thank you for doing that before
stream and uh
we just had somebody else too and thank
you MJ builds for the gifted Subs I
appreciate that hope you all are doing
well thanks for being here
all right as always like to start off
with a few questions a few questions
as folks get in here if you got
questions I possibly got some ants
what's a gift that's a gift to someone
somebody can gift Subs to other people
in the channel and so
um that's what MJ bills just did
obviously move some stuff around here
sorry one second
beautiful
drink today is water
in the now Gene
hey what's up
[Music]
um
will you please see your dogs uh oh
maybe we'll see we'll see how the day
goes
alrighty uh will we go over cloudinary
this class we will so we're going to
talk about cloudinary we're going to
walk through kind of like all the bits
of how we actually get to like uploading
files uh we'll walk through cloudinary
I'll show you like the basics of it and
then um it'll be on you to make sure you
have that account and that you create
your own so you can run your own version
of this code
uh how many recruiters for companies
should we reach out to probably just one
and I like to reach out to Engineers
more than recruiters yeah
I spoke to a recruiter a six-month
contract position she'll be considering
contracts bought for our first jobs yes
you are considering everything
everything for your first engineering
opportunity and once you have offer
letters then you decide
so a lot of folks like to stop
themselves from getting offers that they
probably could have gotten uh not
realizing that you don't have to accept
an offer right you can always you can
always just say no and you can use those
offers to leverage the authors that you
really do care about and so go for
everything if it moves we go for it
yeah now do I prefer contract positions
for the first roll no
um just because uh when you're when you
go in as a contract role there might be
slightly different onboarding it might
be slightly different expectations and
you might not be seen as a fully fledged
member of the team so that can be a
little bit different a little bit odd
um but I've had plenty of students do it
and have success I just know that
um it's it's been a little tricky for
some folks to manage some extra level of
expectations
yeah
how long can you think over an offer so
we're going to talk a lot about this as
we get into the hunt but one of my
favorite things to tell someone is hey
thank you so much for this offer this
offer is something that I'm I'm really
excited about this is a company I can
really see myself growing at over the
next five years like this is where I
want to be
this however is a decision that impacts
myself my family my loved ones for the
next five years because I I want to be
here for the Long Haul so I would love I
could take a week to discuss with my
family and my loved ones and get back to
you but it's really we really really
want you to know that I'm super excited
this is honestly one of my dream
companies to work for and so I just want
to let you know how excited I am about
the offer
right if any monster says if any monster
says no you can't take a week to discuss
with your loved ones and family because
you want to be here for the Long Haul
and that it actually does impact your
life for the next five years they can go
kick rocks right and so a lot of the a
lot of the negotiation and what to do
when you get offers comes down to one
primary thing just calming any fears
that they might have that you are not
interested in the opportunity
right that's it
and so as long as you explain that
you're excited about the offer that it's
a company that you want to that you want
to work at it's a company that you want
to be at and you like really ham that
part of it up you can you can take a big
chunk of time most of the time
uh Hey Leon I can only afford remote
positions the income where I live is not
great what should I do with a hit list
should I only include remote positions
or local positions as well that that's
on you I think if you live in an area
does not have a large developer presence
and there are no Metro areas like in
your kind of uh time zone like your time
zone band then you would go for remote
positions and the tricky thing with
remote positions is just because a
position says the remote doesn't mean
that they actually hire folks outside of
the US or Canada so for a lot of folks
they're looking for remote positions
that also hire globally which you can
find tons of lists of these types of
companies but it's something that does
make The Hit List process a little bit
harder
uh how do you negotiate when your
contracts up and you're offered a
full-time role uh you're you negotiate
just like you negotiate any other thing
right and the beautiful thing is if you
know that you have a six month Cliff
right where after six months
right uh after six months you're gonna
you're gonna move on to full time around
three months into that opportunity you
best be interviewing at other companies
right if you know that you have a if you
have a like a a a a a like a six month
period where you are going to then be
evaluated and then get a full-time offer
you never want to go into that period
with the only offer coming from the
company that you are currently at right
that could be the difference between
just getting like a 5k bump and getting
like the true salary that you deserve
right also if you are entertaining
multiple offers one of the things that
you are going to discuss before you
accept the offer is great I understand
that it's a six month whatever what is
the salary after the conversion the full
time I often tell my students to not
take opportunities where they can't
commit to what that conversion looks
like after full
right so if they're if they're saying oh
it's just three months and then you'll
convert the full time or it's six months
and then you'll convert the full time
great in writing what does that
conversion look like what is my
guaranteed salary because I I'm I need
to I need to make my decision based on
real dollars not future dollars right
and so I always have that in writing
always have that
um always have always have them
um
have that somewhere as part of your
offer package yeah
and if they can't tell you what that
conversion would look like
will they ever ask to see other offers
from other employers uh so I've been
interviewing with lots of companies just
when I say this is the company that I
really want to work at unfortunately
each company has a different process
I've signed some ndas with some
companies uh and I I would want to
respect their process just as like I'm
respecting your process so unfortunately
I'm not really sure if I can legally
share what those other offers are and I
also wouldn't want to disrespect their
process just as much as I wouldn't want
to disrespect your process
right
that's the easy way around that and so
the uh all the stuff that we're talking
about right now like all these little
Clips All These Little Things boom I got
you as we get into the hunt we're gonna
have tons of classes where we talk
through all this stuff
why do recruiters ask what companies you
have interviewed at because they want to
know what their competition is they want
to they want to get you for as cheap as
possible as quickly as possible and so
if they know what companies you're
interviewing at they know what the
offers look like at those companies so
guess what their offer is going to
sneakily come in just below
uh oh this is a difficult one what if I
got an offer but I'm still in the
process of interviewing at other
companies uh you want to make sure that
you get like that week plus time to
evaluate your offer with your friends
and families and then you need to let
all the other companies that you're
interviewing with know that you have
another offer on the table but their
company is the company that you really
want to work at and can they get your
offer ASAP uh you will be surprised the
number of times when you tell a company
that you have another offer but this is
where I really want to work you get your
offer to me quicker uh that almost
always magically find a way to get you
the offer quicker and so they'll often
ask like how long do you have to make a
decision you'll say like three days and
then magically they'll come with an
offer quicker so if you know that you
have a good offer that you're really
considering and you are deep in the
process of other companies you just let
them know and hopefully they get the
offer in quicker
cool
alrighty folks thank you for being here
thank you for the the quick questions in
the beginning we always let the like
folks I'll get some questions is as they
roll in so let's keep moving
uh today uh we're gonna be talking
through a little bit 100 Dev stuff stuff
that's due uh then we're gonna be
talking through uh our social network
seeing the last key bits of stuff that
we need for this binary upload boom code
to work and then your homework is to
continue with your interview prep and to
try and add comments to the code I know
some folks have already tried to start
adding comments uh but that is your
homework after tonight's class we're
probably going to end a little early
last class we did the uh the post and
the gets uh tonight we're going to see
the puts and the deletes we're gonna see
some things like method override we're
going to talk through some like quirks
and features that people have been
asking about
um
what's what's one of the ones that folks
wanted to ask people ask about like lean
some folks were asking about how one
that kept coming up that I was noticing
was
how are collection names getting defined
stuff like that so little things uh that
keep kind of popping up as we go through
this code base we're gonna take some
time to talk through we're gonna see
some quirks of mongoose and have some
fun with it so that's kind of the goal
for it today
Space City welcome
laughs
alrighty we did our questions checking
in so we're at the point and program
where we're getting closer to the hunt
it probably makes sense for us to slow
down on the checking in for class right
but I still use Twitter as like your
attendance so especially for folks that
want to contribute to October for folks
that eventually want verification down
the line I still need to see that you're
here uh so instead of doing like class
check-ins uh we're just gonna help
promote people that are doing good work
in our field right so
um yesterday I tweeted
um
retweeted something from free code Camp
right now they are really focusing on
localization one of the biggest problems
when people reach out to me and they say
hey Leon I want to learn how to code one
of the things that comes up is that
English is not their native language and
it'd be very difficult for them to learn
like really complicated Concepts not in
their native language so free code Camp
is like tripling down like double double
doing down on localization and they have
their full curriculum and like so many
different languages and they're really
investing in like their Core Curriculum
um being in like so many other languages
right and so I think that's like super
dope I think it's one of the most
wonderful things I've ever heard
um they even mentioned that like most of
their staff is going towards that
localization effort so that's gonna be a
huge Boon to folks that want to learn
how to code and improve their material
conditions in life but don't speak
English right like that that's that's
huge that's a that's a huge impact act
and so uh you're checking in tonight is
to like and retweet that tweet uh it
actually add it to the
the check-in hold on one second I don't
know if I updated check-in
uh no I did not oops rip one second
that's the old one
there we go
boom there you go so if you do
exclamation point check-in starting now
it'll give you the actual like the 201
link is the old one
um
so yeah we're going to be doing that
going forward uh I'll probably still do
a few 100 Dev stuff here and there but
uh for the most part it's just going to
be helping us like highlight folks that
are doing good work in the space and
that way your feed starts to fill out
with some stuff that isn't just class
time uh so that will look good when
folks are just kind of glancing over
your your Twitter but I still get the
beauty of being able to see that you
checked in so that's kind of the the
idea going forward uh also I did not
send out a newsletter today a little
little uh little little snap through
there so no newsletter today uh and
checking in will be a little bit
different
uh Thursday's newsletters though
Thursday his new letter definitely want
to check out Thursday's newsletter
that's all I'm gonna say so I'm gonna
say I'm gonna say
all right so please go ahead please
still make sure you're checking in even
though it's not strictly 100 devs
um yeah you're gonna like and retweet my
tweet the one I just linked
like and retweet my tweet uh and then
that way I can still see that you're
checking in if you already liked it like
you were already on Twitter and saw it
and liked it yesterday that that still
counts
um but that's what we're gonna be doing
going forward yeah uh newsletter did not
go out today uh there's a lot of stuff I
have to do to go live and I very rarely
miss it I missed the newsletter today I
was really
um I was reviewing my like like my my
notes for lecture and I just looked up
and I was like oh crap and it was
already past the the six o'clock so it
didn't go out
um but normally you can rely on the
newsletter going out so a little
experiment let's see yeah it's not
automated hell no this is all manual
folks the Discord messages are manual
the newsletter's manual the tweets are
manual everything's like there's a lot
but yeah don't don't worry don't worry
uh it'll be back tomorrow on Thursday
yeah
cool
I'm not a robot hey you wouldn't know
about these moves you know I'm saying oh
oh okay I see you
all right submitting your work uh today
your Hit List is due
right your Hit List is due uh make sure
that you have done two things uh make
sure that you've actually filled out
your Hit List don't submit like
incomplete stuff or blank stuff it
doesn't help you it just makes it way
more work for me uh so please make sure
that you've actually filled out your Hit
List we're looking for 40 40 open rolls
uh eventually it'll be 60 but 40 and
then make sure if you're using the sheet
that you've turned on The View
permissions for all
right you turned on The View permissions
for all like not just me not just my
email but for everyone right so when we
go through and we check The Hit List
um
we need to be able to see that you've
that you've actually filled it out and
we won't be able to see it unless you've
turned the permissions on for everyone
yeah
cool
and so I'll leave this open for the rest
of the day
all right we'll leave this open for the
rest of the day
um I'll give everybody like the full
like I know like I'll give everybody to
like Thursday to submit it because I
know folks are in different time zones
and a lot of you right as class is over
it's like three o'clock in the morning
so we'll leave it open until Thursday
Thursday I need it in by Thursday so if
you're like oh I haven't done it yet use
some of the magic
use some of the magic that we used last
week right use some of the magic that we
uh we'd used last week where you go
ahead and just plop this into Google uh
change remote to your location right
find open roles that were posted since
August you can tweak some of this stuff
you can you can add some things remove
some stuff but this will help you find
more roles uh so you can add them to
your hit list
uh kohai same link same link
try to my location and got zero results
then you gotta expand to your metro area
the next largest metro area and then
that doesn't work then you expand to any
Metro areas like in your time zone
vertical that doesn't work you expand to
remote
and then once we get into the actual
hunt there will be plenty of other
secrets that I have for you to find
companies
um a lot of local job boards a lot of
ways to use sites like Angeles and other
stuff like that but for now you go
fishing
cool
uh so we had our we started our back end
super review on Sunday uh the VOD is
currently on Twitch it'll move on to
YouTube
um we're we're one video behind on
YouTube because remember I'm like
combining two classes into one video so
the local off videos will go up on
YouTube soon hopefully like tomorrow
morning uh if not Thursday morning and
then the back end review will go up
after that and then on Sunday we're
gonna continue it
um there is a slight chance that it
might not be Sunday but I'll be able to
let you know by Thursday confirmed so
we're planning on this Sunday 1 p.m
eastern time again to finish up what we
started on Sunday
um slight slight chance that it's not
Sunday we might have to do Monday but
I'll let you all know by Thursday
foreign
all right next big deadline two weeks
from now client signature approved PR
right so if you have not gotten a paid
client volunteered for a Grassroots
organization or gotten a PR request from
an actual open source project so not
like uh like a beginner's friendly type
thing but like a legitimate open source
project
um those are three things that count
so you have until the 27th to get that
if you do not have that
that's your disqualification
all right also that date
also that date
uh we have our beautiful MVP due for
your 100 hours project so your whole
your whole 100 hours project is not to
be done
but it should be a beautiful MVP and MVP
is a minimum viable project it is the I
mean a viable product it is the simplest
thing that proves your idea works
right so you're going to be probably
building off the binary upload boom code
you're going to be extending it to do
what your app needs and you're going to
make it look great
all right that's the MVP all right so
know that on the September 27th not only
do you have the things that were due a
very long time ago do but you also have
your MVP due
all right
let's go ahead and jump into actually
let me see if there's any questions here
for a second and then we're going to
jump into our social network plan we're
going to see the deleting we're going to
see the updating we're going to see some
of the other quirks and then we're going
to come back on
on Thursday and on Thursday
we'll walk through adding comments I'm
going to want you to work on the
comments at least on your own
I gotta get some more
just taking my time with this one one
second
I got a hoverboard I got to stretch real
quick hold on I'll be right back
all right
okay
all right cool we're back all right
all right all righty so we
yeah here's that see you got something
off of that one I think it's the first
stretch you all seen
I wasn't only fans freebie
foreign
somebody had their hand over the screen
they didn't get the only fans freebie
you missed it I'm sorry
you got that
alrighty this guy recorded it
all right let's talk through our social
media app is it a social media app or is
it a social networking site I don't know
I think social networking site just
means I'm old right I think that's what
that means
all right we're gonna call this social
media app now to be hip with the kids
alrighty so we built out the basics of
our app we have uh kind of all of our
key pieces working so far uh we have
users we have posts we have the ability
to have an individual post we have the
ability to have a feed and we have a
profile where we can see the individual
posts uh for the logged in user and we
have on that profile page a form that we
can use right that we can use to submit
our posts so
let's see this real quick let's just
kind of log in walk through each of
these three areas let's quickly review
users posts let's take our top dollar
break and we come back we'll add in the
deleting and the updating so
let's go ahead and take a look at our
app don't log out real quick I'll only
go ahead and log in here
cool
all right let's go ahead and do let's go
ahead and do uh testy
at testy.com testy
testy
cool so we're logged in
uh once we're logged in we can see that
we're on our profile page and when we're
on our profile page we are only seeing
our logged in photos right so we're only
seeing the post that we made because we
are currently logged in
all right we can click on any individual
post
we could see the number of likes on that
post we had the ability to actually like
these individual posts and we also right
now have the ability to click a trash
can why do we have this trash can again
like why are we able to see this trash
can
yeah because it's it's since it's since
it's our post like it's where the post
of the logged in user we see the trash
can but if we were not logged in uh we
would not see if we weren't the person
that made this post uh we would not see
the trash can let's actually go to the
feed and look at some posts made by
other users
so here's a post on the event Loop made
by a different user and you'll notice
that since this was made by a different
user there is no trash can for me to
click
cool
we also saw the feed here which we can
see all of the posts made by all of the
users
and each post
we can click on
and see the individual post where
there'll be the the title
the caption the number of likes the
ability to actually like the post and we
can always go back to the feed or we can
go back to the profile
cool so let's talk through at a high
level how all this is working together
so
when I
when I go to the feed let's start with
the feed
what type of request am I making by
going to slash feed as part of the URL
chat what type of request am I making
yeah
I am making a get request and there is
some code that is running on my server
that hears that get request uh what do
we call that code that can hear the
requests
and knows well so there's actually a
little bit a little bit different
there's certain code that can hear the
request but then like the whole idea of
being able to hear their Quest know what
to do how to respond that's our API
exactly so our API and we've written
that has everything that's going to
happen when it hears the request and
knows what to do we've actually split up
our backend code using a
a certain Paradigm called what
what's the Paradigm we're using on the
back end
yeah we're using MVC on the back end
model view controller
and actually the first thing that that
request goes in through is our router
our router hands off that requests the
appropriate controller the controller
then decides all right do I need to go
and talk to the model to get some data
can I just go directly to the Views to
generate some HTML controllers in the
middle and eventually can handle sending
the response back to the client so when
we go to the feed we make a get request
we know that get request is heard by the
router the router uses the appropriate
controller the appropriate controller
then goes and gets
every single post
right right now we have set up for every
single Post in our collection
all right and we take all these posts
all of these documents from the post
collection and we start plugging them
into our what what do we plug all this
data into so we can render our feed
what is all this post data actually go
into
yeah it goes into our EJ yes it's in the
game right all this data goes into our
ejs our EGS is a just a template
right it's just a template and there's a
loop that's running that's taking each
one of these documents right each one of
these documents and it's plugging these
documents into our ejs the ejs renders
and spits out some HTML in the HTML is
what's sent back to the client is what
enables us to see the feed
beautiful
all right same kind of things happening
here since our Loop is building out the
feed it's also making each one of these
posts in the feed clickable just with
like an anchor tag and when we click
that anchor tag it takes us to the
individual post that we just clicked on
now how are we
how are we determining what to show to
the user for the individual post it's
kind of an open-ended question but what
are we using what's the key bit of
information that we need to show a
specific post
we need the ID of that post when each
document is created in one of our
collections they have a unique ID all
right and so what we're able to do is
use these IDs as part of our URL
and since we are using this ID as part
of our URL we can use that information
as part of our query to our mongodb
database we can say all right give me
just the data relating to
501 that's the only data I want and then
I'm going to use that data that came
back from the database and be able to
pull off the uh the the the the caption
be able to pull off the number of likes
we're going to pull off all the data
from that post because I'm just using
the i d
beautiful
all right
now we haven't done individual profiles
for individual users yet but let's use
our imagination and we want each person
to have their own profile what could we
use yet again to have unique profiles
for each of our users
we could use their IDs again right
because our users are just documents in
a user's collection and since they all
have their own IDs we could just use
those IDs and when we try and load that
route let's say profile slash 100 it's
going to go and just get the data where
the ID matches 100 so then we'd be able
to plop in Bob
right and we could just grab their post
now since I'm loading this profile page
just like um
right just like uh I'm using that ID 100
I had the query to get my users
collection
but right now what I've also had to done
what other type of data do I need to
show Bob's profile
yeah we would also need to go to our
post collection we need to check through
each post and just find the posts that
are tied to Bob so this one has created
by 100 which is Bob's ID so this post
would match and we check all right
create it by 100 so this post would
match and then we have down here created
by 103 so that would not match so it
would only be these two posts that would
then come into our ejs to render out the
two posts in that user's profile
poor so this is something that we did
not add but maybe it could be a fun
extension for your homework uh and we
can go over building out kind of
individual profile pages and maybe even
adding like usernames on Thursday I want
to be able to add like usernames I want
to be able to add comments together once
you had a little bit more time to play
with the code base now
what we are currently doing is just
loading the profile for the logged in
user
all right right now we are just using
the logged in user so when I load slash
profile
how do I know who the logged in user is
I just want the locals 21 2121
and I went to slash profile how did I
get the profile information for the
logged in user
yeah since we have an active session
every single request has a what yeah a
rec.user every single request now has a
rec.user property that we can we can
yoink right we saw it last class where
we
we're able to console log the request
that request was a massive a massive
amount of information right max amount
of information and there was a specific
user object
right and there's also like the body
depending on what type of requests we're
making and so we're able to pull off
that rec.user to get the current logged
in users ID we can use that ID to then
just get only that user's information so
if Bob was the logged in user we'd be
able to go and get just Bob's
information to load into the profile we
could probably even
um since we're
well we'll say that we get Bob's
information and then we can query our
post yet again just to find rec.user uh
their posts so the first two would be
bobs
cool
alrighty
uh what if there are hundreds of
thousands of posts would that make
Profile loading really slow depends
uh we're gonna see ways to optimize
these over time uh and in fact one of
the things I like to to to talk about is
there is an application called leeches
which is a free chess server
um and it's it's where I play chess it's
one of my favorite places I'm pretty
much on there every single day they have
billions billions with a B of games uh
stored in a mongodb database
and so they're able to pull out
individual games so mongodb does scale
right I'm going to be scales really well
and when we get actually like once we
get past the hunt we're going to talk
more about how to optimize these
applications right
we're going to talk about how to
optimize
um a lot of the things that we're doing
because right now we're really in
learning mode uh you could build
applications no problem that do this
mongodb is really at for a lot of the
stuff that we're doing but as we get
deeper into it we're gonna make some
changes we're gonna make some other
considerations that would make our apps
more performant but we like to build
first right we're always going to build
first we're always going to achieve our
100 hours project and then once we're
through the hunt and we have a little
bit more time to go deeper uh with
certain things we'll we'll all share
videos that compare like mongodb to like
say something like postgres we'll talk
through ways to
[Music]
um
we'll talk through ways to to optimize
your your application so that they're
more performant but in the beginning
it's just not something to worry about
you can build right now build MVPs and
also when you're on the job they're all
going to have different ways that they
kind of do this and so you're gonna have
to pick up their strategies for doing it
yeah refactoring is for closers always
mm-hmm
yeah don't optimize until you need to
exactly what's once you have once you
have thousands of users and they're
starting to complain a little bit then
you can worry about optimizing but for
now we're still like in learning mode
this is the first more complex app that
folks will be using
can you explain rec.user and sessions
again uh so the wonderful thing of using
passport off the shelf and these
sessions off the shelf is that once you
log in
we now have a session that no matter
where you go throughout the application
you can still be recognized as being
logged in and we showed the way this
works is by putting a little cookie on
your computer that enables us to see
that you are that user and so
there's more complexity behind that but
that's at a very base level now once
you're logged in every request you make
is sending your logged in user
information along with that request and
so the beautiful thing is we can just
yoink that information
to know who you are as the logged in
user to then go query to just find your
post to load your profile things like
that
uh where does the ID come from it is a
unique ID that is made right it is a
unique ID that is made uh when the user
document is created and when we come
back from break I'm actually going to
show you something pretty neat about
mongoose that literally blew my mind the
first time that I saw it a lot of folks
were asking all right so let's look at
these models how are the models actually
mapping to the collections uh so we're
going to see that in a few seconds as
well
mm-hmm
can you explain the colon ID ah the
dreadic colon ID so this is something
that um I know is confusing the first
time you see it but we solve this as one
of the URLs right the the the colon ID
and so what we're noticing is if we go
to our application and I click on this
post how do I know which post this is I
could see it's on the screen right now
which post is this chat
yeah the URL shows it this is post 631
a7f39a3a56acfc 7da 286a
right that you I hope you didn't expect
that's the type that whole thing I did
uh this is the specific post
and what post right what post like if we
had to go and find this in our mongodb
we're gonna find this post based off of
the what in mongodb this right here
matches our what
it matches the idea if we look in our
manga DB
and we look at our posts
there's gonna be a post
uh uh here we go there's gonna be a post
that has that matching ID 631-286a
631-286a so we can see in our database
is this document with that ID and so
what we are doing is we are throwing the
IDS in our URL
right so we can identify unique IDs I if
I wanted to right because
I'm a boss and I do boss things right
like I can go ahead and if I wanted to I
can do Mira I can say Neopets is life
and I could choose a file
uh where am I where's my fairies folders
there we go there we go beautiful
fairies folder uh and I could upload
this again
I could submit
all right now I got two posts that are
identical
all right I have two posts that are
identical they have the same
the same title the same
caption the same photo the same number
of likes how do I differentiate between
these two documents Let me refresh my
mongodb here how do I differentiate
between the two
yeah they have different IDs right if we
look
this ID would be two six two eight six a
h
and then this one is three six six three
two seven five seven three so the
content is the same I forget I actually
capitalized this right content is the
same title is the same caption is the
same but the IDS are different so since
IDs are the unique bits of information
here we're plugging these IDs into the
URL that's just how our app is going to
work right or I was going to work by
using these unique IDs to request
specific kinds of content
right
now
the beautiful thing is
we can yoink that ID out of the URL
right but to join that ID out of the URL
we need to tell it what we want and so
when we look at our code and we go to
our post routes we're going to say all
right you just went to a specific route
I want everything that came after that
forward slash
right I went everything that came after
that fourth let's just go back and look
at our URL we are on slash post and then
I want everything that came after that
slash that you that that forward slash
that's what I'm saying here you have
that forward slash I want everything
that comes after it everything that
comes after it is what id is now going
to hold and last class we showed that we
could call this rainbow we could show
this unicorn we could call this whatever
the heck we want it right and now when
we go to our controllers right when we
go to this post controller get post
we can use that ID and that idea is
going to be stored with
rec.params.id this rec.params.id enables
us to grab the values that come after
this colon that are in our route so if
we call this rainbow
right then we would have to come to our
post controller and call this rainbow
and by doing that we can now grab that
value out of the URL and use it in our
applications that we can query our
database and get that exact post and
only that post
I'm not going to leave this as rainbow
though
and we call it ID because it is an ID
where did the IDS come from somebody
said they are automatically created when
you create a document in mongodb the ID
is automatically created where does the
where does the
uh logged in user ID come from well
logged in users are just users and each
user has an ID
that's it
how does it get the ID though if it's
called rainbow it has nothing to do with
the name
right it has to do
with what is placed here
it's it's it's it's just a name calling
we're calling it ID for convenience
because that's what we care about but
whatever was after this your whatever
came after the forward slash we are
going to grab if we look we can see in
our URL that this comes after the slash
we're already on the post route so we're
just gonna grab everything that comes
after here right we're gonna grab
everything that comes after here and
we're just giving it a variable name
that's it we're just giving this a
variable name we're giving this the
variable name right now of
dog
right then in our post controller we can
use that variable name of dog and the
cool thing is we know that dog is
holding that unique string and that
unique string just so happens to be a
what
that unique string just so happens to be
a what
it just so happens to be an ID so the
cool thing is we can say find by ID
knowing that with stored in dog right
now is this ID that came from the URL
right but if this was I don't know
funky chicken
right if that's what was in the URL
right if that was what was in the URL
and our route
grabbed it dog is now holding what
dog is now holding what
dog is now holding funky chicken so when
we go to our post controller and we do
rec.params.dog
rec.params.dog turns into what
turns into Funky Chicken exactly turns
into funky whoops
funky chicken
turns in the Funky Chicken right now
is there anything in my mongodb
collection with the idea funky chicken
no absolutely not there is nothing with
the idea of funky chicken so were we
able to grab funky chicken from the URL
yes were we able to use it inside of our
controller yes but would it do anything
absolutely not it is just the
coincidence that well not coincidence
how he designed it that
we are putting
the IDS here in the URL so when we go
back now if we were to keep this as dog
and we were to come back and do this
now since since dog is holding the
actual idea let me just grab it right
yoink
right now this URL right dog is going to
grab that that that value right we can
say like boom it was just that value
right it's grabbing that
is grabbing that value so wherever I see
rec.primes.dog is going to wind up being
this value
and wind up being this value instead
so we're just going to have this render
out to
that value
right
so now is there when we do find by ID in
our post collection is there a post that
has this ID
yeah so now we're able to find that
specific post when we go to our
collection we'll be able to find that
post and so this is all just really
this
rec.params.dog and this this colon dog
is really just fancy what it's just it's
just like a function right it's just
like a function this is just like a
parameter in your function it's the same
stuff you're familiar with just don't
don't let that kind of scare you this is
just a parameter that's why we're
calling it rec.params it's just a
parameter just like you could pass any
value into a function right like if you
had a function
right if you had a function
right and we'll call it function X you
can pass whatever you want
into this function right we'll just call
this dog
right you could pass whatever you want
into this function
right
this is the most important stuff
most
important I'm just [__] with them I
shouldn't be doing this
boom most important
gonna get real active like
hold on let's go big
history
all right let's let's let's take our
break
let's take our break
all right let's take our break when we
come back from our break we'll explain
that this was indeed not the most
important stuff
and we'll stop I should have done that I
apologize I'll apologize when I come
back
all right let's go ahead and put the
timer on
all right I think everyone's back I was
just I was just messing I was just
messing around I wasn't saying anything
I was just [__] with y'all I wasn't
saying anything uh I did everybody was
just miming I was there's I was not
literally was not saying any words uh
what we were talking about was
um
nothing I literally was not saying a
damn thing while you're watching us uh
so yeah uh we'll we're gonna take our
break when we come back from uh the
break uh we will continue with this idea
of these IDs are just a function that's
it only thing I wanted to say is that it
was a function and you're just passing a
parameter and you're passing a value and
actually let's do this one because
people are back that's what we do before
we take our break it's just a function
right it's just a function and the
parameter in this case is this right
here
and why do we need
right why do we need this
parameter here what is this parameter do
for us
exactly zero so it's not
it's not
it's not hard coded this means I can use
this route for every single what
I can use this route for every single
what
this works for every single post
every single post this works for because
the value is not hard coded just like a
function can take in a value right just
like a function can take in a value
and the function can do what it needs to
do with that function this is the exact
same thing this is a parameter right
just like our functions have parameters
this is a parameter and it was us to
pass in any value right it just so
happens the values that we are passing
in just so happen to be IDs they could
be the string Funky Chicken every time
that wouldn't really do much for us but
since we're passing in IDs into this
parameter the beautiful thing is that we
get to use that parameter so no matter
what post it is our code still works
this get post will work with every
single post right because it's just a
parameter just like our functions had
parameters this is a parameter we can
pass in anything we want it just so
happens that we're passing in ID like
the actual IDs and we're able to use
that value to then go and find a unique
post
cool
uh and then I that's actually a really
good question the last thing before we
take our break is Leah I don't see Post
in that route well it's because we've
already told it here we've already said
hey if the route includes post use these
routes so any route that you see inside
this routes folder is really just this
all right
but to save us some some typing and have
a little bit more flexibility we've
already said that we're on that we're
already on that path so we don't need to
say it again
yeah
cool
all right and for folks that just came
back from break I wasn't saying anything
I was just messing with y'all uh there
was no uh there was I was just miming I
wasn't actually really even saying
anything
all right let's go ahead and put oh
somebody did two minute timer
welcome big hamster glad you found us
all right uh Quinn Sab hey thank you for
the extra two minutes seven minutes on
the clock folks seven minutes we come
back we're looking at the deleting we're
looking at the updating we're looking at
Malta we're looking at cloud and area
we're looking at method override we're
looking at how Mongoose does really
funky things to our collection names
let's go
Dion seven gonna run I think the ads
already ran so we don't have to run them
again we're gonna put some tunes for you
to listen to all right if you're able to
please get up move around hydrate kiss
some babies and I'll see you all at
seven
foreign
[Music]
all right folks come on back come on
back
[Music]
I don't know if you noticed but I was
drawn without my iPad
not sure if with the iPad versus without
the iPad really does anything different
but now I have my iPad
come on back folks come on back
alrighty
there we go
all right let's go ahead and change this
back to ID
and change this back to ID
that way we don't forget it and I'm not
chasing down dog routes uh as we go
through it
all right
uh Tony actually saw your question
before we left for break uh are we going
from zero to one thousand yes we are uh
the back end goes pretty quickly and the
problem with the back end is that it is
all very much so incremental right we
went from core modules from core modules
to
very simple back end with node from very
simple back end to something with off to
something with MVC or something with MVC
to something with uh with with even more
structure to it and so the the the the
back end what's tricky about it is if
you miss any portion of that or you
don't do certain of those assignments or
you just get stuck on one of those
things the The Dominoes start to fall a
little bit and so my advice for folks
that are feeling a little uncomfortable
with the back end is to to slow down a
little bit take your time go back
through the homework right seeing the
the Traverse media video that I assigned
for homework is really important uh go
back and look at maybe like mine Wolf's
old streams where they break down some
of this Concepts in more in depth and
then go on Discord and ask folks to walk
through the code base with you but each
of these pieces were fundamental a lot
of folks skipped the MVC lecture that's
a mistake really solidifying the the the
MVC architecture means that you actually
understand what's going on in this code
base right and so make sure that you're
going through the homework and not just
moving on because we're moving on move
on when you actually understand these
things right and seek out the resources
that we share seek out the stream teams
for folks that are walking through this
in more detail and at any point when you
get stuck and you don't think think
things things are clicking get on
Discord and ask somebody to walk you
through it right but the whole point of
this is that it's it's consecutive
dominoes and if you missed the Domino
it's not going to fall in in the right
order so definitely make sure you take
the time to go back through that
mm-hmm
alrighty
so far we've done the
the getting and the posting
but we also had liking and deleting and
those are some interesting things that
were a little bit different than what we
might have seen in the past and it
actually is perfect timing because the
reason why this works is actually
something we covered during the
the uh super review on Sunday so the
let's look at what this can do
and let's go back to our profile from
our profile when we go to a post
let's just say mirror again uh we can
actually let's do something that's not
mirror because we have two mirrors now
let's let's do Thea here
and let's go ahead and just like Athea
all right so three two one I clicked and
you can see that the number of likes is
now one I can refresh the page the
number of likes is one if we go to our
database and we find
um in the post collection we find
atheist post
you can see that the likes is now one
right the likes are down one and so the
beauty here is that we have the ability
from this click to update the likes on
that specific post by one now
something we've done in the past uh for
these clicks has required what what have
we done in the past that enabled us to
click on something to update the likes
by one
yeah we've used event listeners let's
actually take a look at this um actually
let's take where can I see my
client-side JavaScript
let's ask this question since since an
event listener is client-side Javascript
where can I see my client-side
JavaScript
yep it'll be in the main JS in our
public folder
so let's go to our our public folder
and let's go to our main.js
our public folder
me
uh
wait a minute
public folder
CSS images
avocon Style
so where's the client-side JavaScript
what
there's no client-side JavaScript right
there's no client-side JavaScript here
uh so how are we doing these clicks now
let's answer a very specific question
when I am making this likes right when
when I am when I am when I am clicking
this lovely heart and I am updating the
likes from zero to one what type of
request am I sending to the server
what type of request am I trying to make
to the server to change the number of
likes on this post from zero to one
I am trying to make a put request now
here's a very specific question that can
make a little bit more sense if we
backtrack to one of our early lectures
and what we did in the super review
does our client
natively
come with the ability to make a put
request
history
music is still on and had the wrong
headphones in
let's think about this is a very
very specific question right
do we have the ability to natively make
a put request and it's no
we can make get requests very easily by
like just refreshing clicking an anchor
tag right like these those are all right
those are all anchor tags right those
are all get requests
how can we make a post request what
what's built in that does a post request
forms forms through our posts request
okay so since forms are doing our post
request and our get requests are
normally simple things like refreshing
the page clicking an anchor tag right
that that's that those are baked in like
HTML the client-side respects
the gets and the posts now
how have we been making puts
and delete requests up until this point
fetch
right if we look at our previous code
like the the off with local login code
right our to-do list we have been making
those requests with fetch now fetch is a
what
yeah
fetch is a web API
and since fetch is a web API
that is dependent our application right
now is dependent on what to work
yeah our application right now is
dependent on the environment the browser
to have these apis or our application to
work
right if our client
does not have those apis available to it
our application wouldn't work
fetch is not something that is native to
our application right fetch is a web API
that is being provided right that is
being provided by most of the browsers
where we're running our code but
eventually we can get into situations
where the client doesn't have the fetch
API available to us right maybe we
eventually want to start running our
code in places other than a browser I
don't know right but right now there is
not a native way of doing puts
and delete all right we have been using
the fetch API to do that
well the wonderful thing is if we look
at our code let's let's just inspect
here
inspect element
and we look at this
button
this button is really a what
this button is really part of a what
oops sorry I'm still bigly
I always get hired like yeah I am big
what's going on yeah what's up what's up
hey hey thank you for recognizing no
we can tell that this button is really a
what
call me big L.A
man that old school LL Cool J hit
different
it's a form look at it would you just
look at it
would you look at it
it's a form
and so forms by default right forms by
default are always what type of
what type of requests
so forms are always post
yet I'm using a form to do a put
it's a post but I need it to be a put
what do I need to do for my post to be a
put
I need to override the method exactly I
need to override the method and what
we'll notice is that
on
this form
the form always uses the action to know
what to do right the form uses the
action to figure out what to do that
request is sent to the server
and on that action that's part of the
request that comes from the server sorry
from the client you can see down here we
have a what
we have a what
the query parameter right it's a query
parameter and that query parameter
has a method
that equal to put
so what's going to happen
right
what's gonna happen
is
on our back end
we are gonna see a post come in
but we're gonna check each post that
comes in to see if there's a query
parameter on it called meth underscore
method and if it has that underscore
method we're gonna override that post to
be whatever the equal value is here
right so even though when I click this
button I am technically submitting a
post
right I'm technically submitting a post
on our back end we will be able to
override that post to be a
put
all right let's look at the trash can
let's look at the trash can
trash can same thing inspect
we look again
trash can is really a form
except at the end
we have this magical query parameter
with a delete
so even though we are submitting a post
right
even though you're submitting a post
right we're going to overly override
that post
to be a delete now this is POD racing
exactly right and so we get to we get to
do this now
somebody said we should just be able to
change the method of a form I agree with
you locating in fact if you look at the
early specifications of HTML there were
some that included you to have the
ability to do deleting to do to do
pudding to even do patching right but
that was lost from the specification and
with the more recent HTML5 it was it was
not ever added so we can do this method
override right we can use our forms we
can use this this method that works
which is the post and on our server we
can override it right we can override it
from a post to a delete
we can override it from a a a post to a
put and this does not require
right does not require any client-side
JavaScript which means that our code can
load what
our code can load what since we have any
client-side JavaScript
can load faster
and we are no longer dependent on a
client that exposes a fetch API
right what if we're in a browser that
doesn't have a fetch API
right what if we're on like some really
really old browsers right what if we're
on some really really old browser like
our client does not have a fetch API our
apps just wouldn't work right they're on
a really crappy browser what if if we
wanted to use something that wasn't
necessarily a browser me a lot of like
Now kitchens have have clients that can
consume the internet do they have a
fetch API I have no idea
right but if they're loading HTML
HTML supports
posts
bioforms so as long as something
supports HTML right as long as something
supports HTML our apps will always work
all right
eventually we'll get into like different
clients that we could use and all that
fun stuff but now we have a different
way of handling this type of of of these
different types of requests that before
needed a fetch API before that needed to
hand stuff off to the event Loop think
about this before we were running
client-side JavaScript
all right that client-side JavaScript
had to hear the click event The Click
event then executed a function that
function then put the fetch request onto
the call stack the request gets handed
off to our web apis our web apis go and
do the asynchronous task the result of
that asynchronous task is put in our in
our task queue once the call stack is
empty it goes to the task queue it takes
it off the task you puts it on the call
stock then it executes
do we have to do that anymore
oh
nope we'll handle it all in our back end
so we get the ability to not need
client-side JavaScript we get to kind of
Escape some of these weird things we
open up our applications to working on
more clients we open up our applications
to me being slightly faster right as
this is something that is a pattern that
you're going to see uh quite often so
how does it actually work let's take a
look at our code
so we have some middleware
uh and we have this ability if we look
at our server.js uh we have this ability
to have the method over ride right so we
required a special npm package that's
going to handle this method overriding
for us
and then we're able to put this little
this little bit of code right here that
says hey use that method override
package right and look for this query
parameter
so all of our post requests that come in
right all of our post requests that come
in we're now going to look to see if
they have this underscore method right
this underscore method query parameter
uh you can change it to whatever you
want this could be underscore rainbow it
doesn't matter right if you underscore
that could be whatever you want right
we're calling it underscore method now
every single post that comes in will
look at the underscore method and we'll
treat that request based on whatever
that query parameter equals so if it's a
put we'll treat it as a put if it's a
delete we'll treat it as a delete that
means when we clicked that
that like button let's go ahead and
right click inspect when we click that
like button
yes it was a
form yes it was a post request right but
when that form came through it looks at
the URL
and it sees that it had this underscore
method query parameter so it's going to
treat that post as a what
and treat it as a put beautiful so now
we have to look for a pope a pope God
damn it we're about to put look for a
put
a put
on the post
like post route
I have to look for a put on the post
like post route and then we're gonna
have to grab this value to do what why
are we gonna have to grab that value
what do we what are we trying to do here
yeah we're trying to find the post to
update the number of likes we're trying
to change it from one to two all right
so we click the heart
when we click it the form submits the
form sends our request to the server the
server sees that it has this underscore
method and says you know what hold up
that's not a post
that's a put
now that we're dealing with a put let's
go to our routes and find a post route
like post
and make sure that it's a put so let's
go ahead and step through that all right
we're at our server.js is it a post
route
chat is it a post route
yes so we're going to use our post
routes our post routes requires us to go
to our routes folder and find the post
file here we go our routes folder our
post file now we have to find the second
part which was what what was the next
part of that URL take a look what was
the next part of that URL
you can see it was like post so let's go
ahead and take a look
slash that's not right create post
that's not right like post boom
like post boom that's this the router we
found the right route and we set up our
parameter so we can actually grab this
value from the URL right since our
parameter is set up there we can grab
that value from the URL so that means
we're on the right route like post we're
gonna be able to grab that ID from the
URL and we're going to use the post
controller and we're going to use the
like post method so let's go to our post
controller let's find the like posts
method
boom here's the like post method
all right
we're going to use our post model
and what I love right what I love is
that Mongoose is so easy find one and
update we're gonna find one post and
we're going to update it well which post
are we gonna find whatever post has the
ID
of the ID we just had in our URL so what
we're going to do is we're going to find
the post that has this ID
right that has that idea we're going to
find the post that has that ID when we
find the post that has that ID what are
we going to do
we're going to increment the likes
property by one
so
we're gonna find that post based on the
ID
right
right based on the ID
and then we are going to increment it by
one now this is something that comes
along with mongodb uh and by extension
Mongoose we've seen some other ones in
the past there's increment there's like
decrement there is there is set there's
a bunch of these that just come out the
box you have to read the documentation
to know what it comes with right right
you have to read the documentation know
what it comes with but there is a
built-in increment so that we can
increment a specific property by one if
we look at that post let's go find the
Athea post
uh let's make sure that we're
we're here all right so here's the Athea
post we can see the likes are currently
won so if we were to actually click we
would find the legs property and
increment it by one so that this would
go up by two
this will go up to two
right
so let's actually click now
and we'll step through it again I'm just
going to refresh the page make sure
we're in the right spot all right we're
good I'm gonna click on the likes three
two one boom
what just happened
was we submitted a form
that form had the route of post slash
like post slash this long ass ID
with the query parameter of underscore
method equals put
our back end is set up to hear that
query parameter and say don't treat that
post as a post treat it as a put
so now we have to hand off this to our
router saying all right buy me the
router that's post slash like post and
better have a query parameter in there
to grab this ID
when it
binds that route it also gives us the
appropriate controller to use that
controller is going to say all right
yoink that ID out of the URL
find the post in our database that has
that ID and increment it's like property
by one
what if the users like a post more than
once we're not stopping them from doing
it yet that's that's that's too much
well you can worry about that later if
you want to show off and figure out how
to set that up go for it that's that's
that's an extra level of stuff
all right
let's go ahead and right click on it so
we can see the code somebody asked about
that
all right we can see the code here
here's the button we're actually
clicking on we can see that it has the
uh the heart class hold on let's take a
look at that real quick uh let's take a
look at our CSS
no God please no no no no
no
no so all this style
like all this style is not even coming
from our CSS it's because I have these
classes on it that are supported by
bootstrap right
these classes mean something in
bootstrap to make it a button that has
that button primary color which is blue
fa heart
um which is the uh font awesome for the
heart right and so this like actual
style and stuff is not even coming from
my CSS it's just it's just bootstrap
and uh eventually once we get further
along we're going to swap it out with
Tailwind but for now just bootstrap
yeah like our EJ it's still ejs it's
just our ejs if we look if we look at
our ejs
um like if we look at the post our ejs
takes in this partial that's the header
and if you look at that header partial
well it loads
bootstrap
right and it loads font awesome
so I'm able to get those default
those default stylings from bootstrap
I'm able to get those default icon fonts
from font awesome and that's it
now if you want to tweak the Styles you
want to do something else then you just
throw it in your in your CSS file that's
in the public folder
all right so let's step through this one
more time
um
let's click on it we clicked on it again
right so we clicked on it let's inspect
the thing we actually clicked on was
this button that had the form and the
form had the action or the URL of post
like post with the ID of the current
Post in it with this method override of
put so the request goes to our server
our server sees that post request comes
in but it sees the query parameter and
says you know what we should override
this post to be a put from there our
normal code comes into play we are going
to find the post router and then the
like post route
start at the server.js
all right
post router we're going to go to post
routes
post routes find the like post drought
boom we have our query parameter set out
so we can yank the ID of the post we are
on out of the URL we're going to go to
our post controller and use the like
post method post controller like post
method we're going to use our post model
to talk to our post collection we're
going to find one of the posts or one of
the documents in that collection and
update it well which one are we going to
find we're going to find the one that
has the ID property that equals the ID
that was in the URL as part of the query
parameter and once we find that specific
document that unique document we're
going to increase the likes by one so
there's a likes property whatever number
is in that Lex property we're going to
go up by one how can we tell
how can we tell
how can we tell if likes is actually a
number that we can increment by one you
don't let's say you don't have access to
my DB how can you actually tell that
legs can actually be incremented by one
what if it's a string or something weird
why why won't this turn into like 11
okay let's check our schema let's go to
our post model
let's check our schema and we can see
that likes the property of likes is
actually a number so it makes sense that
we could actually increment a number by
one
cool
um since we're kind of already in the
model right since we're already in the
model
uh and this is all stuff that that was
like in the homework video right like
this this is this uh method override
this is shouldn't be the first time
you're seeing it
yeah
uh Sarah said is there a way to have
authentications while having these are
Anonymous to me and everyone else like
just the username they choose uh yeah
you just you just don't include the
email in your user model and your
passport strategy
uh the travesty media video had method
override in it the storybook the Google
off video and then Mine Wolf went over
it as well during their stream
yeah
cool
all right so this actually can increment
it is a number it should be able to
increment one of the weird things I
wanted to show you about mongoose
um was
this right here so our model is called
post
right our model is called posts but
what's our collection called
where did it get posts from
like look it's it's called we called we
called our model post here but if we
look at the uh actual collection
it's called post
you want to see something really weird
you want to get really funky with it can
I get can I get funky with it first can
I get funky chicken with it real quick
you ready
hold on hold on to your pants
we're gonna call our model
we're going to give it the name of ox
right our model's not going to have the
name of ox
um
so our model name is now Ox let me make
sure I'm on the right page before I save
this hold on
um let's go to like our feed
uh
uh actually I'm gonna have to make a
post first I have to make a post first
so let me go to the profile for this to
work I'm going to make a post
all right
so right now there is no collection
called Ox I'm going to save this right
we're gonna call it Ox I'm gonna save it
for this to work I'm gonna have to like
create a new
right a new post that would make it
force it to make a new collection called
ox
so let's go ahead and create a post
we're going to call this test
we're going to choose a file
I'm just going to use
this one again
and we're going to get an error right we
should get an error because our
controller is not set up to use the
collection
um oh did I save
oh maybe maybe only if I go to the feed
would we get the error
okay there you go it's just showing in
the feed just that one
that one post right
there's there's no like all of our other
posts are gone
right all of our other posts are gone
because now we're using this new
collection called Ox right we can see
that we enabled the model to be the name
Ox you ready though hold on about to
blow your minds
you ready
go to our mongodb let's refresh
oxen
foreign
[Music]
when you say post that it should be
plural because you're going to have
multiple documents so your collection
shouldn't be post it should be posts
well if you have a collection for oxen
and you call it Ox you call it your Ox
controller it knows that it's going to
want to make your collection the plural
so it knows to do Ox to oxid
uh somebody read the stack Overflow
article this actually comes from a stack
Overflow article a long time ago but it
doesn't know to do
Goose into geese like it knows some of
them
uh but not all of them right you know
some of them but not all of them right
uh and so it's trying to do the plural
of whatever you put in and so the cool
thing with Mongoose is if you just leave
it at these two it'll do the
plurification but you could actually add
a third argument here that's the actual
name of your collection
right like you can you can put an actual
name here and it will respect that name
and it won't do any of like these like
funky like purifications or anything
like that
yeah so it it uh
it's smart with some things but not all
of them
cool
all right so I just want to show that
because I thought it was pretty funny uh
so that's where the the actual
collection names are coming from we're
using the post controller so so far
that's the likes
we have one more to do and that's the
leading uh but we are at the top of the
hour let's go ahead and take our break
and we come back from break we'll talk
about our deleting I'll answer any more
questions you have about this and then
your homework will be to get caught up
uh and to maybe start thinking about how
you might add
uh how you might add comments to the mix
all right folks let's add five minutes
to the clock here
put the tunes on
and if you're able to please get out
move around hydrate but okay something
that's not your screen
and I will be back in five and run some
ads to new folks showing us don't want
to sit through them
all right buddy see you soon
welcome empower
foreign
[Music]
the music fades for us as we get back
can I do the worm oh yeah I can do the
worm
old school b-boy
I can pop it I can lock it I can drop it
I can Tut it
what you need
got you
did I mess with the left up left right
downwards for uh no it was just the the
start of the stream question uh mine was
I'm always right and always down you
know what I mean
there we go so that was my answer
is Bob joining the stream team I've
people keep mentioning it like
there are some
um like programming YouTubers that have
created like 24 7 uh like Lo-Fi channels
and we used to look at 24 7 bobadoro
Channel
uh I'd be down I got a lot of projects
on my on my list but I think that'd be
something funny to set up
yeah it's like 24 7 just Bob adoros
and people can like vote with like
Channel points like if it should be like
a 25 5 30 30.
maybe we'll just start off with like a
like a voice channel on Discord
all right
we have to look at the delay Tang uh and
then once we're done looking at the
delay Tang I'm gonna open up to some
questions I know there's some like other
little quirks that are happening in this
code base but I feel like we've spent
enough time going through it uh I know
stream team has gone through it mine
Wolf's gone through it so I feel like
there's enough here that we can kind of
work through if you still need help
always Discord uh get in
stream team channels ask questions like
this has to make sense but this is like
just the back of end like this is the
back of the back end right this is like
the back this is the end of the back end
right like once you got this it's just
building new models new controllers and
that's kind of all we wrote
all right and so
um
yeah eventually once we get through the
hunt we'll we'll have some fun doing
some optimizations We'll add testing to
this and some other fun stuff but
um
this is this is it you get you get this
down you can build whatever the heck you
want
cool alrighty let's look this looks
delay Tang
um Let me refresh to make sure I didn't
mess it up with the ox stuff
uh let's go back let's look at our feed
here
uh let's go to yep I'm just I'm just
kind of clicking around a little bit
just to make sure that we're good all
right so we're good
uh let's go ahead and
uh I can't delete any of the fairies
oh we got two mirrors all right we got
two mirrors we can delete one of the
mirrors
all right this mirror is lowercase n
and other mirror is uppercase and so we
we did kind of have slightly different
versions
um
so we can
delete the lowercase n
uh and so when we click this trash can
this trash can is only
viewable right now why
because it's my post and I am logged in
so how the heck does that work
um let's look at our route let's follow
this would loading this link is a what
request like by hitting enter here I've
made what type of request
I've made a get request right so let's
start there uh making a get request on
the post route and the route just slash
and then my query parameter so let's go
and take a look at our get requests
start the server post route go to post
routes
just forward slash and then the query
parameter so this is the route we're
going to ensure that we're logged in
great so it is checking to see that
we're logged in that's why one another
one of the things I keep in mind like we
have to be logged in to get to this
point anyway and then we're going to use
our post controller and the get post
method so go to our post controller
get post method
we're going to use our post model to go
to the Post collection we're going to
find the specific post that was in the
ID right we're going to find the
specific post that was in the ID
and we're going to hand off that post
information to our ejs and we're also
handing off the user information to this
ejs
so where will the logic exist for
whether or not we show the trash can
interesting question
where will the logic exist for whether
or not we show the trash can
in the game folks exactly EJ yes right
it'll be in the ejs there's there's
nothing up until this point that said
like don't or do show trash can we've
just gone and found that specific post
we're sending that information to the
ejs and we're sending the logged in
users remember whenever you're logged in
right right whenever you're logged in
and you're making that request right
that rec.user whenever you're making
that request
um
that user properties being sent along
with the quest of the logged user so
we're sending all the post information
underneath the name post and all the
logged in user information underneath
the user so we have to go and look at
this post ejs
all right so we look at the post ejs
let's go down to where that uh trash cam
might be
and here is our conditional bit of logic
all right this is interesting
so if
post dot user equals user.id what are we
checking here
when we check post.user equals user.id
yeah we're checking to see that the
person that made that post is the person
is logged in because we look at our
collections let's look at our
collections real quick uh let's look at
our collections we can see it in our
post collection
it has the user that made the post right
so post dot user is going to give us the
person that made the post
all right post dot user is going to give
us the person that made the post so
we're gonna check is we're gonna say hey
the person that made the post
does it match
the logged in user
all right does the person that made the
post match the logged in years we have
to look at the controller to see this
right we're sending in all the post
information underneath the the title of
post so every single post is going to
have a post dot title a post dot image a
post.cloudinary post dot caption a
post.lex a post dot user post dot
created at right they're gonna have all
right they're going to have all of these
things
and since we are sending the users
logged information underneath the word
user user is going to have the ID the
email the hashed password right all the
stuff that gets sent with every logged
in user's request you're logged in
you're sending that request object with
the user property on every single
request so all we're going to do is
inside of our ejs
we're going to say hey does the person
that made the post equal the person
that's logged in because if the person
that just logged in equals the person
that made the post then we can show
the trash can
right
cool
so now since we know the person that
made the post is the person that's
logged in AKA like I made the post and
I'm the one that's logged in it's gonna
show this trash can and this trash can
is doing the exact same thing we saw
with the likes
it's on the post route with the delete
post route and then we're going to plug
in the post ID
right so we're using we're using the ejs
syntax to plug in the ID into the URL
the URL will eventually just have that
string of numbers and letters that is
the ID and we're adding that method
parameter of delete so when we submit
this form by clicking on the delete
button we will be making a post request
to our server with this route including
the ID of the post that we're currently
viewing
and the method
override of delete so that request makes
it all the way to our server our server
sees the method query parameter it says
all right we see that query parameters
we're going to treat this post not as a
post but as a delay today
all right and so now that we know it's a
delay Tay on this route we can go back
and look at our server.js all right it
was a post drought let's find the post
route that had the delete post all right
here's the post route with delete post
beautiful we're able to grab that ID
from the URL
right we were to grab that ID from the
URL and once we do that we can use our
post controller and the delete post
method so let's go to our post
controller
let's go to the delete post method and
here is the delete post method delete
post method is going to go to our post
collection using the model it's going to
find that post by the ID it's going to
say hey find the post that has the ID
property that matches the query
parameter that was in that URL
when we find it
right when we find it we're going to
first
well we can actually kind of get around
this we don't need to do this anymore we
can just we can find it we just found it
here right we can delete it from our
database Right This Is Us deleting it
from the database but there's one other
thing
right there's one thing that we have to
do
we're deleting a post
and that post contains what bit of
information
it contains an image
and where is that image being stored
well sorry it contains a URL to an image
it contains the URL to that image and
that image is being stored on cloudinary
now cloudinary has a very generous free
account but eventually if you have lots
of users and they're all uploading
photos and each photo that people delete
if you don't actually delete it from
your cloudinary account you're just
paying for storage of images that folks
will never use think about that if you
delete that post
but don't delete the image from
cloudinary eventually you just have all
these images sitting on your cloudinary
account right that nobody will ever be
able to use you deleted the post which
means there's no longer a post in your
collection
right
the stock Private Collection exactly
right you you now have no post in your
mongodb database so there's no way to
ever get that photo back or that URL
back into like your system so we want to
make sure that we actually destroy that
media on cloudinary's end uh and then
remove the post on our end
right you can actually you don't need
this line and I forget why I have this
here
um so you can we want to destroy that
image off of cloudinary so we're not
just taking up space that'll never be
used and then we remove the post from
our post collection
cool once you remove that post we're
just redirecting them back to the
profile
that's all
now why did I have this here why did I
do this
my day there's a reason why I did this
yeah I want to make sure that that it
exists right I just want to make sure
that that post exists right before I
start sending like a a very
a very final
request the cloudinary like destroy this
stuff let's make sure the stuff exists
first right we can always do that like
that's an important bit later on is like
we want to make sure that it exists
um
we might use that down the line to do
some slightly other things so that's why
it's there right now but the idea is we
can check see if it exists we're going
to destroy it and we're going to move it
from our our database
cool so that's how the deleting is
working let's run that back one more
time
run it back
we're clicking this lovely trash can
here when we click the trash can uh and
so the thing you want to be able to get
here is look I'm going to do without
without looking like being able to have
this in your brain is like actually a
really good thing so we click the trash
can
we click the trash can it's actually
submitting a form that form has a
specific route and it has the specific
ID number for this post it also has a
parameter a query parameter of
underscore method set equal to delete so
when this post gets sent to our server
our server overrides the post and says
that it should be a delete which then we
have to go and find the route that looks
for the Post
delete and it has the query parameter in
the URL when we find that we find the
right controller we find the right
method that method goes and finds to
make sure that post exists it destroys
the media on cloudinary and then it
removes the post from our post
collection
so let's go ahead and click the trash
can
eat
right Yee and then it redirects exactly
so heated it so clicking that trash can
if we were to follow it through
we can even follow through from the from
the uh ejs right it would be that slash
post slash delete post and then it would
have the actual string in there for the
for the you for the actual post ID with
this method delete so that submits the
actual request to our server our server
hears that request it overrides the post
to be the delete we see that it is on
the post route so we go to our post
routes we find that it is the delete
post route we also see that there is a
lovely ID query parameter there we use
the post controller with the delete post
method we go to our post controller
delete post method we can actually
confirm that it exists we can destroy
the media on cloudinary and then we
remove the post from our post collection
very last thing we do is redirect to our
profile because that post no longer
exists we shouldn't hang out on that
page anymore it doesn't exist kicks us
back to the profile you can see that
that we unfortunately now only have one
mirror
[Music]
they've come a long way since the
bachelor I agree I agree
it's a lot of Little Steps it really is
all right now the last thing here is
this cloudinary
and uh we hadn't really talked through
how the cloudin area is working
we will
on Thursday when we add comments I'll
also spend some time like showing you
how to set up your cloudinary
um
I haven't prepped it so that I can show
you without revealing my keys I know
they hide them by default in the UI like
if we go to cloudinary right now
risky click of the day boom uh we can
see that like some stuff is hitting like
the secrets hidden the URI URL is hidden
the API key is visible but you need you
need all four of these for it to
actually work
um but I haven't set up the actual
adding phase to not get wrecked so let
me do that uh between now and Thursday
uh then we'll we'll walk through it I
think yeah mine wolf did already do it
so if you're you're you're you're
itching to get this set up right away
um Mine Wolf already did it
oh
all right I just don't want to bring
this down
everybody's like try to use it all right
so let's go ahead and add a new post
let's go ahead and say
new post
testing
and let's choose a file
let's bring back a mirror
let's do a different photo yeah we'll
bring back
yeah we'll bring back mirror
let's open that up now let's submit
all right now we got our double mirrors
back which is what we all want in life
uh and so we can see it's our new post
it's testing but we're also able to
upload an image right we're also able to
upload an image
um and so if we follow this bit of code
uh we are on what what page are we on
right now when we were when we uploaded
the new photo what page were we on
thank you hyper
we're on the profile page let's start
with the profile ejs
start the profile ejs
here's our profile ejs and we have a
form here
for submitting the post so it is post
slash create posts
and some important stuff for this to
work is you're going to need the ink
type of multi-part form data uh molter
which is handling our image uploading
does not work without that ink type
being set so some folks when they write
it from scratch forget that and then
Mulcher doesn't work so we have our form
in our form we have our input for our
title our input for our caption or a
text area for a caption and then we have
the file upload
and the file upload uh is just a normal
input type file
right uh input type file and then we
have our submit button so what's going
to happen is when we submit this form
right when we submit this form it's
going to be like any other traditional
post request we're just going to need
some middleware to help us handle it
okay so let's go ahead and look for the
Post request on our post route with the
create post route
so post on post create post
all right let's go and take a look
server.js it's a post route we're going
to then look for a create Post in the
post routes go to the Post routes create
post here it is and then it has this
stuff before the controller
we've seen this before we've seen steps
before we get to our controller
literally right above is we have this
ensure off middleware right that's
checking to see that we're logged in
right so we've already seen middleware
that is kind of in between the route
before we get to our controller so now
we have this upload middleware and if we
look the upload middleware is requiring
us to use molter
all right so molter is the is the
middleware it's going to actually handle
taking that file and helping us upload
it and doing some checking on that file
right literally sits in the middle AKA
middleware
huh
all right and so we can see that the
upload is actually requiring molter
and we can see that single is probably
just a what on malter What can we guess
that molters probably returning
let's go to middleware
let's look at molter
right we can see that molter right is
spitting out this like lovely
lovely little
little function
right technically like an object inside
of it and so the stuff that's on on
molter is really just it's just it's
just methods on this bit of code here
so if we look at molter there's some
bits to understand let me go back real
quick one second
he
uh
sorry I was on the post route there we
go so we're using upload which is really
just requiring molter if we look at
molter what malter is going to do for us
is there's one thing that we can see but
under understand that with molter
uh malter is like a pretty substantial
package that we had to install
right it's a pretty substantial package
so we had to install motor has a lot of
stuff that's happening underneath the
hood remember packages that we installed
through npm are really just bigger
collections of a lot of like functions
and
methods have been built out for us so
moulter is doing a lot we are not
storing it to our own disk locally so we
kind of keep this
um empty if you watch some of my
videos from last cohort we did have a
phase where we stored our images locally
and not straight to cloudinary which is
where you might have some other storage
stuff in here but what we're really
seeing here that's the only really big
thing on molter that we are seeing at
the surface level is that we're checking
for what
yeah we're checking the file type we're
making sure that's a JPEG jpg or PNG uh
if you were to try to like upload like
an SVG or something like that this would
break right because right now we're
limiting it to these different things
you could change this you can do
different stuff you probably want to
check with your media provider to see
that it supports the media that you're
going to allow folks to upload so that's
something you might have to look on
cloud and areas and say hey cloudinary
can I upload svgs can I upload MP3s can
I upload uh gifs right right you'd have
to read the docs to understand and then
you might change what happens on this
filter
right
cool
so that's kind of all here molter's
doing a lot of heavy lifting that we
don't see because it's deep in the
package and if we go back to our routes
we know that we're using molter here
it's handling the uploading of the file
and then we get to go to our post
controller and the create posts so post
controller
create post and what we're going to do
is we are going to use cloudinary right
we're going to use cloudinary we can see
that cloudinary is another bit of
middleware that we have included
if we go to our cloudinary middleware
you can see that the cloudinary
middleware is just using the cloudinary
V2 npm package we can see that we are
requiring our EnV files we are then
pulling in all the stuff we need for us
to be able to connect to cloudinary like
our Cloud name our API key our API
secret all these things are stored in
our EnV files and it just exports
cloudinary so do you have to understand
do you have to understand what is
happening with like any of this
no
I I would not know to do
cloudinary.uploader.upload.rec.file.pat
like I just wouldn't remember that I
just know that I I looked at
cloudinary's docs
um I looked at some other folks that
were doing stuff with cloudinary and I
grabbed the pieces that I need
right so
I've done it for you
that's abstracted away from you uh if
you don't understand these things that
are happening we know that cloudinary is
a package we know that that package is
probably made up of a bunch of different
methods so uploader is probably a method
right upload is probably a method on
that and it's uploading uh the file
right it's uploading the file that
molter just helped us upload
if we were strictly a back-end developer
how much of this would we need to know
by heart you would not need to know this
by heart even if you were the best
back-end developer maybe if you do this
every single day
right maybe if you do this every single
day you would you just have it in memory
but you're going to be more used to just
reading the documentation like
cloudinary has this in their docs I
didn't get this from nowhere I got this
from culinary's docs and by looking at
some examples probably on stack Overflow
right like you you start to pull in
pieces but now I have this on my GitHub
if I ever need to use cloud and air I'm
going to go and copy the middleware I'm
going to copy this bit of code and I'm
ready to rock and roll hey Pat
tell your professor I said hello
yeah I agree with Nick you don't need to
know anything by heart you just might
end up happening at by its byproduct
just by doing this enough
um you will you'll start to kind of
start to remember things
cool
all right so we are in the create posts
we're using cloudinary and we're
grabbing as part of the request we
uploaded a file remember when we
submitted that post request part of the
request that came along was that actual
file from the form malter is helping us
get that file uploaded and we're able to
use that file uh to upload the
cloudinary
um
you can notice that we're awaiting the
results from cloudinary because what do
we need from cloudinary like for us to
have actually created a post what are we
awaiting from cloudinary
yeah we need the URL we're going to hand
off this image to cloudinary we need
cloudinary to give us back like to give
us back the URL that we need for that
for that file so that's what we're
seeing here
we're seeing here that we are going to
go ahead and
um we're going to await whatever comes
back from cloudinary and store it in
result and so the cool thing is if you
notice when we go and create our post
right we're using our post model to
create a post we have a title that came
from the form
request.body.title but we have an image
URL that came from
cloudinary because it's part of result
we also have a cloudinary ID that came
from cloud and area because it's part of
result we're going to use this ID maybe
what where where we might need this ID
to delete it right we might need the ID
if we're gonna act if we're going to
delete these if we're going to delete
these photos we're probably going to
also not only need the URL but the ID to
help us delete it right
cool
the caption came from the form body we
hard coded likes at zero and we coded
the logged in user as the person making
the post so we had to get all that stuff
from cloudinary the image and the ID and
we're storing that with each post that
we create if we go and take a look
at our mongodb we can see in the post
collection they have an image URL that
came from cloudinary and a cloudinary ID
for that actual image so that when it
comes time to deleting we can actually
delete it
nice
so it's just another database exactly
it's just another database yeah just
another database
um we're just there's no such thing as
the cloud it's just somebody else's
computer
oh
Dragon asks an interesting question are
databases objects so when we're talking
about mongodb
and we're using Mongoose there's
actually something I just want to
explain because people asked about it
when we're using mongoose
um
and we're using mongodb
all of our
our collections are made up of what
documents
now for all intensive purposes
documents are almost the exact same
thing as objects however
they are not one to one
documents
have all the stuff that would make it an
object plus a bunch more
like five times the amount of stuff you
might need uh to do your job if you were
just expecting an object so this lean
that I put on my request was saying hey
just give me the stuff I actually care
about like just give me the plain old
object take all your wrappings and extra
stuff take that all off just give me the
raw like objects right no fat just lean
exactly right keep it lean right and so
why would I include this
way faster
way faster if each document that I'm
getting back is no longer has like five
times the amount of stuff that's coming
back from it and I'm just getting the
raw lean stuff I care about way faster
so are all documents objects technically
but they have a lot of extra stuff that
you don't need if you're just interested
in the objecty stuff
all right that's it
it just makes it faster you're getting
rid of the gunk that comes along with it
um and how how would I how would I learn
about this
how could I figure out what what lean
does
lean is Mongoose yeah lean is Mongoose
helping us documentation
yeah you can go to mongoose's
documentation and they'll break down
um I actually pulled up by default
Mongoose queries require an instance of
mongoose document class documents are
much heavier than the JavaScript objects
because they have a lot of internal
state for change tracking enabling lean
option tells Mongoose to skip
instantiating a full Mongoose document
and just give you the plain old object
in the docks
sometimes you just gotta read the docs
folks
all right so let's just run through
deleting one more time and then we'll
talk about Thursday
and uh one one other thing I just want
to cover while we're here all right so
let's take a look at deleting
and
we are going to delete our second mirror
uh so we're going to go ahead we see
that we have the trash can why do we see
the trash can
the Poo I think they actually call it a
pojo just for that I think yeah yeah
pojo plain old JavaScript object I think
they didn't want to call it a poo
all right I'll see the trash can because
this is my post and I am logged in if I
inspect it
and we'll see that it has the post
delete post and the the actual post
ideas there I think some folks get a
little tripped up when they're looking
in the ejs and they see in the ejs
um sorry post egress we've seen the
postage they see like the the the ejs
Syntax for plugging in that value but
that gets plugged in there and the
result is having the actual ID in the
URL
right so uh if I was to click on this
button I would wind up submitting the
form which would make a post request to
the post route the delete post route
with this value in the URL as a query
parameter we see the as a parameter we
see the query parameter of underscore
method so on our end our server set up
to override the post to be a delete so
we're going to look for a delete route
on post delete post with the ability to
have a parameter so let's go and take a
look
foreign
let's go to our server the post routes
we're going to use post routes here's
our post routes we're going to look for
a delete post route there you go it has
the ability to grab the parameter from
the URL we're going to use the post
controller we're going to use the delete
post method we go to our post controller
delete post method we make that sure
that the post is actually there we
destroy the media on cloudinary we
remove the post from our post collection
we kick our user back to the profile
because the post doesn't exist no mo
no mo
Rando do exclamation point 100 devs and
click the link
you know I said pretty simple
pretty simple it only took us how many
months to get here pretty simple you
know easy got it easy clap
yeah
cool when we come back uh Thursday
I want to figure out if we can expand
upon this code base like can we build
stuff now that we have the raw materials
can we add comments and
we'll do it from scratch so we'll walk
through creating the controller we'll
walk through
um making sure that we're we're
connecting all the bits and Bobs that we
need to connect and we'll walk through
cloudinary creation we'll walk through
making sure that your mongodb is set up
correctly we'll do everything from the
beginnings uh and I'll share everything
live so you can kind of walk the whole
steps together and then we're we're kind
of done with the back end my folks we're
going to uh have you work on a project
AKA your 100 project that uses this
stuff and then we're gonna we're gonna
sprink in a different way to handle our
views which is react
and then we're going to move into data
structures and algorithms and go deep
with our our hunt
so
let's get into it all right like I said
I wanted to end early because I want you
to use this time if you need it right
use this time if you need it do hey
mushy unless you want to come and see
what I was doing to use this time to
review the things that we did get some
active recall in right get some active
recall in uh make sure that the things
are clicking maybe go on Discord ask for
some stuff if you need it if you're if
you if you didn't something didn't make
sense get help on Discord you're not
doing this alone right and uh let's read
so you want those sweet sweet Channel
points let me get you some sweet sweet
Channel points with a raid
all right
cool
I'm gonna go over to team Vash if they
have raids turned on
I haven't seen them before but it looks
like they're building up an MMO which is
pretty cool
all right let's let them know that we're
sending a raid by
cool
alrighty folks please take the time to
do some active recall if you haven't
checked in already make sure you check
in uh we're retweeting and liking the
free code Camp Post have a wonderful
rest of your night everybody get the
help you need I'll see you on Discord
I'll see you in mine will stream
tomorrow and I will see you all on
Thursday to go even a little bit deeper
with all this stuff everybody have a
wonderful rest of your day evening
morning no matter where you may be and
let's read
yeah hey
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah hey
hey good morning good afternoon good
evening no matter we're coming from hope
you all are doing well
welcome back folks welcome back to a
wonderful Thursday hope you had a good
week so far I hope you had a good
Wednesday glad you're here we got some
fun stuff to do
uh as we mentioned Tuesday uh we're
gonna run through adding comments to our
binary upload boom our social media app
and then uh we're gonna jump into some
groups and try doing it together so I'm
gonna do a speed run as fast as I can go
through it
uh showing the the quick and dirty way I
would add comments and then I'm gonna
stop so you have seen one then you will
do one together and then once you start
to understand it you're gonna teach
somebody else it so we're gonna see one
do one teach one Community taught folks
all right everybody glad you're in here
uh as always I like to start off with
some uh some questions let's start off
with some questions so if you got some
questions I got some answers
Discord clothes
two weeks is a professional software
engineer and I love it hey congrats it's
huge
it's going on
make sure that I send out
the notification ah here we go
oh no I didn't save it
we don't get got or
boom there you go
today's would you rather
would you rather was uh would you rather
teleport or read minds and it didn't go
out
it didn't go out so in chat would you
rather teleport or read minds
the logs are getting heavy but I'll keep
at it that's what I love to hear
whoa look at these teleports
that's overwhelmingly teleport
that's wild
that's not even close
I was instantly teleport
and I was like if I could read minds
though I could probably make a lot of
money and then I could buy the Jet and
then it's not as quick as teleporting
but I'm Jet and you know what I'm saying
I don't know but then I thought about
how much fuel I'd be burning and so like
the teleporting came back out this is a
hard one we might need it we might need
to we might need to to to think about
this one but uh y'all want to teleport
real quick
although teleporting you're probably
like a big business right like you could
like
you could like I don't know just like
teleport stuff for people around like
you teleport money around I don't know
[Laughter]
I love how I can't just have fun with it
I'm like how can I make the most money
with it
looks like I was a good movie too I
immediately go to bank heist you all
your teleport all you were teleporting
just the rob banks
I feel okay all right
Speed Run Uber each job that'd be that'd
be funny
alrighty
you got questions I got some answers
let's get in here let's always give
folks a few seconds to get in here
before we get started
do I need a passport no you just
teleport and passed uh best Customs but
hey I'm not a lawyer so you magically
get the powers to teleport don't listen
to me
our part-time software engineer jobs a
thing they are they're not as common
there's also like freelancing or
contract work which could be more likely
part-time in some cases yeah
mvc's still okay with with react I mean
there are we're gonna extend MVC to be a
slightly different Paradigm once we add
react though but the core is still
similar
is it reasonable to look for a remote
job and work it plus travel at the same
time I mean there's plenty of people
that do it
um
but I think the first three months or so
are pretty difficult as you ramp up and
some companies are more open to you
being in different locations than others
should we have our Banky answers
memorized or should we have the key
points in mind about the answer I think
having a pretty good I mean it's kind of
it's up to you how you how well you're
able to spit ball
um
I'm pretty able I'm pretty I'm pretty
comfortable if I have some key talking
points I can talk my way around it but
um
for a lot of folks I think the deeper
they have it memorized the more
comfortable they feel
right they'll feel more comfortable and
if the talking point is already there
they they feel they feel better and so
I'm definitely in the camp of memorize
as much as you can but I know it's a lot
and so I feel like especially at least
the behavioral questions the behavioral
questions absolutely need cold like
absolutely cold because they just come
up more often the technical ones as much
as you want to go
I make a music app for my 100 hours
project as long as it's a full stack web
application go for it
already
hey happy birthday
what about a Spotify dating app that's
actually not a bad idea I think you
totally do it somebody did a Spotify app
for the last last cohort so if I can
remember who it is I can connect to you
but
how do I know if I qualify for a job
when I don't meet most of the
requirements you don't click apply
that's how that's how you qualify you
don't click apply if you network your
way in any of the requirements don't
matter anymore
right because once you're talking to a
real living breathing human being at
that company
right
real living breathing human being at
that company your your projects matter
more your ability to show the work that
you've done matters more and so the way
we get around really weird requirements
that a company really want to work for
is to network our way in
[Music]
um
let's see uh scene group says before for
tonight no it should probably be new
groups tonight just to work with more
folks uh but like I said we're gonna
we're gonna take our time to get through
this adding comments I want you to see
it
have a rough idea of how you might
approach it and then go right into uh
groups working through it with some
other folks as well
and speaking of that there was a raffle
today
let's go ahead and take a raffle that
was in the newsletter
and I'm just gonna go ahead and copy
this real quick
and do random name picker here
boom 400 people before I mentioned it
normally she's up to like 800 as soon as
I say it so I grabbed before you all can
run in there
I took a random winner
all right AMA Alyssa uh whatever group
you join on Remo I will join you and we
will work through uh adding comments
together for the first half an hour or
so and then there's any other questions
I'll answer them and then I'll keep my
moving around so I'm coming to your
table first
foreign
write this name down
boom
all right
so tonight I want to walk through
are
binary upload boom our social media app
but I want to add comments and I want to
go as quickly as I can but before we
jump into that we did some questions
please go ahead and check in if you
haven't already checked in I can do
exclamation point check-in to get the
link here tonight click on that link and
uh you'll go ahead and like and retweet
that tweet so I know that you're here
that's how I do attendance and
since we're getting closer to the end of
this cohort bad face uh we are going to
kind of chill the class announcements
and just take some time to highlight
some really amazing resources uh that
are always free of course and
tonight I saw uh primes data structures
and algorithms course which is
phenomenal it's one of the highest
quality uh like tutorials I've ever seen
running Masters really knows what
they're doing Prime tore it up and so
it's completely free
nine plus hours quality data structures
and algorithm stuff uh that's wild so
what we want to do with our kind of
check-ins over the next few classes as
we wrap up is slow down kind of the the
hundred times
check in normal class stuff and just
start highlighting some resources that
are amazing completely free and will
help a lot of folks in their career so
go ahead if you haven't checked in
already so I do attendance and you can
always just follow me on Twitter and see
it there or it's always on Discord or
you can actually just do exclamation
point check in here
all right submitting your work I said I
would give you until today to get The
Hit List in right to get The Hit List in
and so if you haven't submit the hit
list yet go ahead and submit it in this
form for me today please uh that way it
can count towards your hunttober
submission
alrighty
what did you think of the Zelda
announcement I actually haven't seen the
direct yet I just saw donkeys dunking on
the PS5 versus the Nintendo Direct so I
did see that there was something at the
end of it but I haven't actually watched
the um
the thingy do you still have to pay the
for the front end Masters though no
that's the cool thing
um you do not to pay for front end
Masters you do not even need to enter a
credit card to get access to that data
structures and algorithms course I would
never link you resources that you had to
pay for and I try my hardest to never
link resources that require as credit
cards so for their front end Masters you
don't need a credit card you don't even
you don't need anything you just need to
create an account completely free
yeah it's wild
yep
yeah and they they said they're gonna
make it permanent that it will always be
free
which is a big deal for me
yeah so it'll always be free no credit
card uh what else can you want and it's
a huge like it's just a huge massive
course with really high production value
um
all right uh if you need that last bit
of magic to fill out the Hit List don't
forget to use it uh and that's kind of
it oh sorry back in review class We're
not gonna be able to do this Sunday uh
we're gonna wind up doing a uh Power
Hour and we're gonna push the back in
review to the following Sunday so
we're still wrapping up the binary
upload boom today so the backend review
won't be this Sunday it'll be the
following and this Sunday we'll do a
Power Hour at our normal one o'clock
Eastern time so I some folks still
wanted to catch up from the last one
this gives me a little bit more time to
prep for the next one and so we'll do a
Power Hour this Sunday at 1 pm eastern
time and then the following Sunday we'll
do probably like another six hours uh to
finish it up
oh
all right those are all the big
announcements I wanted to talk through
what I want to do now is do a speed run
through adding comments and then we'll
get in groups and you'll do it yourself
C1 do one each one all right let's go
ahead and make sure that our app still
works this is just the app that we've
been working through uh the code is on
GitHub if you need it let's do npm start
all right my server is running I'm
connected to mongodb let's just play
around and make sure that it actually
works
login we're logged in
we got some posts that have some likes
and what I would love to make sure works
is that we can add like comments right
here so
I went whoever's logged in to be able to
leave a comment and I just want to be
able to see all the comments in like a
list so
nothing too
nothing fancy we're just gonna go for it
and
go pretty quickly through it because I
just want you to have a rough idea of
how to do it and then the bulk of your
learning the bulk of you figuring it out
won't be me live it'll be you working in
groups through it together so let's
think through uh adding our comments we
have our original kind of document and
so if we're going to add comments let's
just add comments on individual posts
right so I want to add
all right I want to add individual
posts I want to add individual I want to
add comments to individual posts and so
if I'm going to think through about my
comments the thing that I'm going to
originally think through is just all
right
I have my users I have my posts I think
comments are going to be their own
collection and each comment will have a
bit of information uh there will be
the actual comment itself
there will be maybe who made the comment
and what post the comment is tied to
right so
we'll probably say all right we have an
individual post
how can we tie all the comments on this
uh to a specific post if we look this
post has the idea 501
and then all these comments have a post
idea 501 so I am tying these three
comments directly to this post by the ID
so just like we've been using the IDS
with their posts our comments will be
their own collection with their own
documents and we'll tie comments to a
specific post by using the IDS yet again
so I'm going to start off with that I
think
for me I like to start off with my data
right I like to start off with my uh
like what what's going to wind up in the
database and kind of work my way
backwards so where am I going to start
right
oh you all thought I meant like comment
the code not like add comments to it no
no we're adding comments
there's like some people that probably
skip this class like I don't want a
comment code
[Laughter]
that's funny
I'm sorry I should be more specific all
right you got that
um
cool all right so yeah we're gonna start
with our model so let's go to our code
here
um and I want to add a comments model so
first thing I'm going to do copy my
posts model and then in my models folder
we can just right click new file and
we'll call this comment.js
I'm going to post paste my post model
and requires Mongoose I'm going to
change this to comment schema
comment schema and do we need a title No
but we do need a comment that is a
string we don't need an image we don't
need a cloud in there we don't need a
caption maybe we keep the number of
likes
um
yeah maybe we keep the number of likes
so I'm just gonna eat this
to here
right maybe we keep the number of likes
uh we could have like a user
um but we don't really we didn't really
we don't really need to we don't really
need to know which user made the comment
because that's just that's you could
eventually add that if you wanted to so
I'm actually going to change this to
like post like what post made this uh
what post does this comment come from so
the idea of what we saw over here where
we had uh all three of these comments
right all three of these comments
pointing to this post well how do I know
which posts these comments are supposed
to point to and so I'm just going to go
ahead and leave this as a post instead
of the user
um
yeah this is a speed run you can name It
Whatever the heck you want to name it
when you get to work through it together
so I'm just going to leave it that I'll
leave created that and we'll call this
comment
and we're exporting the comment schema
cool so now we have our comment model
and where are we actually going to wind
up seeing these comments are we trying
to code along hell no
uh this is this is me trying to show you
how I might approach it and then you're
going to do all the coding in your group
so you're gonna see me do it very
quickly minimal minimal kind of
explanation you're going to see how it
comes together and then you're going to
do it together in groups
all right
let's see
all right I feel comfortable with this
comment comment likes posts created that
comment comment schema uh we're gonna
see it under each post so where are we
actually getting the posts from let's go
ahead and look at our post controller
and we have like the get post method so
probably what we need to do is when we
get the post here we probably also need
to get the comments so let's go ahead
and what else do we need here before we
can get the comments what else do we
need
yeah we're going to need to load the
comment model as well
so let's go ahead and do comment
and we're going to go ahead and do
models comment because that's our
comment model so now we have now we'll
be able to pull in the comment model
and when we go to get post not only can
we find the posts
um but we can find uh specific comments
and I know that there's going to be a
lot of comments and we're probably going
to want to sort the comments so we
actually have right here from the feed
where we went and found all the posts
I'm going to reuse that line actually to
find all the comments I'm going to call
this comments
and we're going to use the comment model
to find the comments
and we'll sort by descending
um but there's one other thing I don't
want to find all the comments what
comments do I want to find
yeah by the specific post so if we look
at our comment model we actually do have
a post property for the individual post
that this should be tied to so in my
controller I can just find wherever post
matches and how could I how do I know
what post I'm on
how do I know what post I'm on
yeah I'm lucky I already have the post
ID
this method is trying to render a
specific post right
specific post and so this is trying to
render a specific post
um
they're trying to render a specific post
I already have that actual post that I'm
on inside of the
rec.params.id so I can just throw that
in here
right and now I'm going to look through
my com I'm going to use my comments
model to go to my comments collection
I'm going to find all of my comments
that have a post property of the current
post that I am actually on
right and then I can sort them to
sending order and I got the lien so I'm
getting just the the pure the the pojo
the pure uh the pure JavaScript object
cool and then the only thing I also have
to do here is now that I have the
comments what do I need to do
I grabbed the Poo exactly
I need to add them to my ejs I need to
render them into my ejs so
let's go ahead and pass in comments
comments
yeah there we go so inside of our ejs
we're going to have a property of
comments that are equal to
the comments that we found in our
collection that match the idea of the
post that we're on
and so
we probably have to just go ahead and
modify our post ejs now to use the
comments
so if we go to our post ejs
um we have like the caption and
underneath the caption here is where we
can probably put the uh the actual
comments like it's just we're just gonna
maybe Loop through and create an Li for
each comment so I'm going to put a UL
here
and now I need to Loop through all the
comments that I would get back from the
database and where can I find that Loop
where have we done a loop so far
yeah the feet so let's go take a look at
the feed ejs
um feed EGS has the loop here for the
Post like in the feed we have all the
individual posts we went to the database
got all the posts and then looped
through adding each post well we can
just join this
because it'll be the same thing for our
for our comments so we'll just say
comments here
and I'm not doing anything fancy
I'm not gonna do anything fancy so I'm
just going to get rid of um
let me get rid of this
get rid of this
and it's just gonna be
comments
and what would be the property that we
need
comment yeah
like if we look like if we look at our
posts model
if we look at our post model we have a
comment property
right we have a comment property so when
we Loop through all of our comments
we're going to pull the actual comment
off by the comment property
right
I will put off by the actual comment
property so now we should have a loop
all right we have a loop that should go
through and pull off all the comments
cool
now I have already been playing with
this so I have already added some
comments to my my database and so you
can see the comments are now showing up
for this post
right
my comments are already showing up for
this post if I was I was already doing
this earlier right so I know that this
is working that it's pulling comments
from my comments collection uh if we
look
let's just run back what we did we
created a comment model that has a
comment property
in our post controller we said hey go to
our comments collection find all the
comments tied to the post that we're
showing on the page sort them and then
we're going to pass them to the post ejs
to render when we look at the post ejs
we can see that we now have this for
Loop that's going to Loop through and
show all the comments right show all the
comments
uh in the Dom
cool
oh yeah
I do have an extra there we go eat
let's save that and go back
should I
there we go
got rid of the uh
the extra
carrot there
all right so this is only doing
something because I've already added
comments to my to my database but the
next big step that we have to do is like
actually have users enter in comments
right right now we're able to grab
comments that are already in our
database but none of you all will have
comments in your database yet
um so we need a way to insert comments
what do we need if we want our users to
be able to make a comment
hey Juicebox
yeah we need a form uh where are we
where we where do we have a form before
where have we had a form before
yeah when we created a post which is on
the profile
so if we go to our profile we actually
have a form here already I'm going to
grab this whole div that has the form in
it
uh let's go back to our our post ejs and
probably just right above our comments
I'm going to add the form and for our
form we don't need any of this stuff
we'll actually change this to add a
comment
um we're gonna have to change the action
uh we don't need ink type multi-part
form data because we're not
um
we're not uploading a file and actually
if you like leave that you might run
into some trouble you're gonna have to
do a workaround so I'm gonna eat that
and then I will change this from title
to uh comment
and we'll change the ID to comment
and we'll change the name to
comment so now our form has a comment
input and I don't think we need anything
else I'm going to get rid of this
get rid of this
[Music]
um
and I don't even need the value of
upload
it's just a submit button now
cool so I just kind of took the form
that we already had in our in our
profile took away the stuff we didn't
need and now the only problem that we
have is that this action is not correct
uh and so what I'm probably going to
want to do
is make a route specifically for
comments
right make a route specifically for
right
so I'm going to say comment
create comment
and then
you know what how am I gonna know
how am I going to know what post I'm on
like if I add a comment to every if I
had a comment form to every single post
how am I gonna know
which post I'm on
yeah I'm gonna need to plug in
we need to plug in the post ID so the
cool thing is we can just plug it into
the form even though this is a post we
can still plug in the uh the ID
um
in our profile ejs where we actually
have our Loop here
uh we can see that this is how we plug
something into the URL I'm just going to
copy that
and I'm going to plug that into
my post ejs here
boom
so now what this should do
is when this post page renders
right
when the post page renders it will now
have a form and that forms that forms
action will have a new route that we
don't have a router for or a controller
for yet we haven't gotten there we'll
have a new route of comment create
comment but we should be plugging in the
current post ID remember
remember our post controller we passed
as part of the post controller all the
info about the post and all the info
about the comments
right
and so we passed all of that in to this
uh post render so when I look at the
post ejs
I know I already have access to the ID
of the current post
now it's going to get rid of the space
because sometimes that causes me trouble
all right let's save this
and let's see if it actually works so
let's refresh
and let's see post is not defined
uh post is not defined that means I
probably called it something different
in my controller here
uh oh it's called post
post uh so I have to change it to be
post here
post all right let's save it
uh let's go back
uh
cannot read properties of undefined uh
there's no Loop oh yeah no Loop
and
what do we pass in is it just post ID
yeah there's no Loop right because
there's no loop it's just the post
remember when we were looking at the
profile ejs we were looping through so
it was post and we needed the index to
Loop through it says now we're only
passing One Singular post uh we don't
need the uh the index because there is
no index
so that should be it let's save that
let's go back
refresh just to make sure
boom all right so now we have
a comment form
and if we inspect it
if we inspect look at the action look at
that action
that action's pretty tight look at that
so we have
comment as the base of the route create
comment and we still have our ID as part
of the of the action so when I submit
this post when I submit this post uh
there will be sent comment create
comment and that that that ID that I can
link
so now
we have what we need I think to load
this post page we have the actual form
we have the loop that's actually showing
us the comments right
so what we need to do now is build out
the route to be able to post a comment
so we have to go all the way back to our
server.js because we need to add a new
route
um
will that post
like sorry will that comment be on our
main routes our post routes or do we
need a new routes entirely
yeah let's make a new one Let's uh
you wink
oop
I'm gonna call this comment
and we'll call this comment routes
cool
uh and then we need to come up here
and actually require the comment routes
so we'll call this comment
routes
we'll just call the name of the file
comments
cool
and so now we need a new route file in
our routes so I'm going to come down
here new file
comments.js and I'll go to our post
routes I'll copy everything I'll come to
our comments JS I'll paste it now we
have our routes for our comments
um do we need motor now we don't need
molter
um do we need our post controller we're
probably going to make our own comments
controller yeah we're gonna make our own
comments controller so we might as well
do it while we're here uh comments
controller requires controllers comments
cool
um and we can keep our middleware
and then the only thing that we're so
far adding for our comment routes
is what what's the only thing that we
that we need for our comments route
yeah we only need a post we don't need
to get
ye we don't need to put
yeet
we don't need a delete
well
I just need the post
and what is our route for the Post we're
already we're already on slash comment
right we're already on slash comment so
we don't we don't need to worry about
that
what's our full route
for right now for right now you might
you might when you get into your group
add the leading you might add
um liking or something like that but for
me I'm just I just want to create
comments
yeah slash create comment
cool
slash create comment and I need one
other bit of information
I need the ID
right I need the ID I don't need this
upload because I'm not uploading a file
and we're going to call this comments
controller
comments controller and we'll create
comment not post
cool so now we have the router set up
we should be now be able to when we when
we submit that form
the server.js to send us to this router
this router should hear the create
comment ID which is a post
it should then point us to our comments
controller with the create comment
method so we have to create that
controller controller
controller
here's our controllers new file
comment s
dot Js
cool
and I was going to grab my post
controller
copy
and
I'm going to just go to my comments and
paste
cool
this is a speed run folks
chat I am paying attention I got [__] to
do
this is not in the repo yet no because
you all are doing it together in just a
few minutes
[Laughter]
I'm going for the world record baby you
can't hold me back
all right
I don't need any of this except for
we're gonna call this create comment
cool I don't need any of this cloudinary
stuff yeah
um I don't and we could we got to clean
this up too
uh mine's a title
it's not a title it's a comment so I'm
gonna need a comment I'm gonna need
comment from the body
I'm gonna do rec.body.com and remember
if we look at the post ejs
the post ejs now has an input with the
name of comment so when this form
submits the input the whatever values in
this input will have the rec.body dot
comment
so when you rack that body dot comment I
don't need image
I don't cook I don't clean let me show
you how I got this ring actually I do a
lot of cooking
anyway let's go ahead and see cloudinary
ID
we don't need caption either
um what actually look at let's look at
our model see what we actually need uh
we need comment we need likes and we
need post all right so we need comment
likes and posts right
comment likes and posts and the Creator
that's a default so we don't actually
need to submit anything for that comment
likes post
control that so comment likes we already
have hard coded and
um so we'll get rid of caption and then
here we need the post
how can I grab the actual post that we
want this comment tied to
we passed in the ID right if we look at
our we look at the route
we passed in that idea as part of the
URL if we look at the form
all right if we actually look at the
form
we look at the form the the the actual
post ID
right
the actual post ID is already in there
right the actual post ID is already in
there so we can just grab that ID as
part of our query parameters so we can
just do rec.params
that ID
just like we grab it for any other any
other place where we have seen
in the profile
right like in our profile controller
would have seen that let's let's take
let me write a post controller
uh let's take a look at the post
controller real quick
right we grab the we grabbed the ID from
the parameters that's all we're doing
here
so we're gonna be able to grab that ID
be able to grab that ID from the URL
right and store that as the post
so now whenever we create a comment we
have the comment that came from the form
we hard coded likes we pass in the ID
from the URL that is the current post
that we want this comment tied to and
then it does the Creator that by default
we don't need that here
um
I don't think I need anything else here
so
get to step in
boom
and I don't think I need like
I don't think I need delete
cool
I just need to create comment
and redirect oh I want to redirect them
back to the same post
I want to redirect them back to the same
post
um
we'll be that route
we already we're already on there right
so it would be
post
right we need to redirect them back to
post and then
we'll just say
uh
wreck params.id right
there we go
that should take them back to slash post
slash the actual ID of the post
slash post actual idea of the post yep
that's the URL
all right let's save this
um
oh and I'm using the wrong model
this should be the comment model
right because I'm in the comments
controller I'm trying to create comments
that requires the comment model and I
required comment I don't need
Post in here
and I don't need cloudinary in here
okay
all right I think I think we are
I think we're close
comment comment
comment
all right so let's step through it
uh they submit the form
this form is a comment route
which takes us to comment arouse which
requires us to go to the routes folder
to our comments route file
um where you were requiring the comments
controller we're listening for comps
comment slash create comment we're
grabbing the ID of using the comments
controller in the create comment we have
our comments controller with the create
comment
method
uh yeah that's a good idea we should we
should uh say comment has been added
comment has been added
uh so I think that and then we redirect
back to the same post I think that might
be able to make us make uh I think that
might be making posts
I start making comments
let's see
I'm just going to go back to like the
beginning
uh let's go
here
uh there's already one comment
oh
show
let's go hold on 10 second warning
10 second warning and
five
all right
[Music]
foreign
all right
let's go let's go and actually let's we
gotta test something though
let's go to a different post let's see
mirror all right cool so the you can see
that the the comments aren't showing up
the comments aren't showing up for
mirror right so it's only the the
comments are actually tied to the
individual post we can see another one
in test or on Athea
and we can see that here we have for
show and Betty
cool
all right
stop the clock
what is that
under under a minute at least adding
comment speed run now
there's a lot more that we could do and
I'm sure there's quite a few things that
we could we could we could clean up
right I'm sure there's some things that
we could clean up
um you might when you start working in
your groups want to maybe add something
like likes but your goal is to do what I
just did I went through this super fast
there's no way that if you've never
added comments before that you should
have been able to catch everything that
I just did right that's kind of the
point I want you to see one in all of
its Glory very quickly and now you're
going to get into groups
right you're going to get into groups
and
in your groups you're going to try and
build comments as well right now I will
push this code to GitHub
in like a half hour
right in like a half hour
um
but you come together as a group get
your code base working so that means
make sure everyone has able to get
mongodb working uh make sure everyone is
able to get cloud in area working right
and then add your comments
all right I'm gonna step through it one
more time just so we can see
and then you're going to work in groups
uh this will be your homework due next
Thursday is to actually add the comments
so let's go ahead
and uh just step through it real quick
we added a comments model
right we added a comments model
where we added a comment property a Lex
property a post property and it created
that property uh the Post Properties
like the post that the comment is tied
to
in our post controller when we go to
render a specific post we're also
grabbing all the comments that are
associated with that post we're passing
all that to our ejs so when they load
the post page now not only are they
loading all the stuff about the posts
but they're adding the form to add a
comment and then all the comments tied
to that post uh we'll notice that our
form when we submit it has a new route a
comment route with a create comment and
including the idea of the post that
we're currently on so for that to work
we need a new route for comments in our
server.js file we're going to have a
router specifically for our comments we
only did one thing with that with that
route which is creating a new comment
which is a post
we say all right here's the action from
the form create comment we're grabbing
the ID of the actual post that we were
on and then we're going to use that
comments controller right that comments
controller and we are going to go ahead
and create a comment so comments
controller create comments go to our
comments controller uh what we do is we
use the comment model we're going to
create a new document using that model
that has a comment property that came
from the form likes that were hard
coding and the specific posts that were
already on that were pulling from the
URL when we're done making the comment
we redirect back to the actual post page
and we should be able to see the comment
that we just made
um
all right
let's go ahead you know what let's
actually do
um same groups as last time
uh which might make it a little bit
easier just to kind of jump into it
because I didn't do any post pairing so
let's do same groups as last time uh go
over to Remo if you don't see your group
that's okay uh go to now let's mix it up
let's mix it up we went through same
groups as last time uh join Remo uh
there are two Remo groups I recommend
everyone try the first Remo group first
right join the first remote group first
uh join a table
introduce yourself right and start
trying to add comments if
if
uh no one sits on your table go find a
different table feel free to move around
a little bit if your table already has
some folks that have done it great have
them walk you through it right the uh
the beautiful part here is that no
matter where you're at technically you
should still join us tonight and try and
work through it with the group if you
are already got this down lock you
already attempted it for homework
already your job is to teach somebody
else how to do it see one which we all
just saw do one what you're about to do
together and then we want to teach one
so if you finish it right if you finish
it teach the rest of the folks in your
group work through it together make sure
that you're spending some time
not to go deep as a general rule of
thumb as always if you can't be kind
this is not the community for you please
respect the idea that not everyone is
super comfortable with the back end yet
we're all here to learn we're all here
to learn we're not here to add some
random wild stuff that you found on the
internet into the mix we're not here to
add react to it we're here to do exactly
what we just did live together we're
going to work through it together if you
already are ahead great show somebody
else how to do it if you feel like
you're you're struggling with the back
end great join a group and ask a ton of
questions the point is to learn it is
not to produce beautiful code we're all
bad as we write bad code please the
point is to walk away having a better
understanding of how we might do
comments the VOD will always be
immediately available so you can always
kind of come back and see how I did it
in real time if you need to I'll push
the code to GitHub and a little bit once
you get into your groups Mine Wolf did a
stream yesterday where they got
cloudinary and they got mongodb working
so if you need that there you go
so everything you need is here on the
internets now we're all going to go on
Remo Remo has been updated really try
and use Remo first just because you can
be a little bit more collaborative it'll
be smaller groups if for some reason re
like give it a good remote try and give
it the good 100 try for some reason it
doesn't work then please go into a voice
Channel but the voice channels get huge
and you're not going to get as much from
it in the voice challenge you would on
Remo so try Remo first the links are on
Discord they're on Discord and your
homework if you're trying to do hunt
Tober your homework is to submit a pull
request with your version of comments uh
on this repo by next Thursday
so yeah I won't I'm not going to push my
code I'll push it I still want you to do
yours though
all right so you should probably take a
break uh give yourself five minutes and
then jump on Remo right jump on Remo and
then uh start getting to it I'm gonna be
on Remo for a good while I'm gonna join
um who won the thing again let's see I'm
gonna join uh AMA Alyssa's table first
so you I think you might be pretty
popular this evening uh we're gonna walk
through it together and then uh it
always pays to open the newsletter folks
cool stuff I got a lot of really cool
stuff coming for the newsletter upcoming
up soon so if you haven't opened it go
ahead open the newsletter uh you never
know what you might find all right buddy
this is a speed run
it's not meant for you to fully
understand it that's what we're gonna do
right now in groups if you need the
links let me let me just throw them in
chat while we're all still live
uh but the links of course are always in
the Discord message
let me just throw them in here real
quick so folks have the Remo links
and then I'm we're not going to do a
raid we're just gonna we're just gonna
stop because you need to take a break
and you need to go and get on Reno
there we go there are the links folks in
case you need them
all right I'll see you on Remo have a
good rest of your night work hard get
these comments working and I'll see you
all on Sunday for a power hour and next
week react folks all right let's get
into it
peace